# Azure Site Recovery Service

- DRaaS: Disaster Recovery as a Service
- Tool for VM replication and migration from anywhere to Azure
- Containerization of existing applications and infrastructure.
- Modernization options for apps and databases.
- Can automatically replicate to Azure or from Azure
  - Supports Hyper-V, VMWare, Windows, Linux VMs
- Pre-, post scripting with **Azure Automation**
  - Safeguard complex workloads against outage with
- Use-cases
  - Use Azure as a secondary site for conducting business during outages.
  - Continuous health monitoring remotely from Azure.
  - Lifting and shifting of servers, apps, databases, and data.
    - **Lift and shift**: A strategy for moving an application or operation from one environment to another without redesigning the application.
- Pricing
  - First 31 days free then to Azure (25$), to on-prem(15$) per month for single instance
  - Storage always costs
  - Azure Compute Charges for recovered VMs (if fail-over / migration is done)
  - Outbound data transfer (egress charges, when failing back)
- ***Azure Backup vs Azure Site Recovery**
  - You need to have both to have a full business continuity plan.
  - **Azure Backup**: Copy of data to restore business back to a specific period of time

## Azure Site Recovery Deployment Planner

- A command line tool that gives an excel file
- Includes on-premises summary, recommendations, VM storage placement, compatible + incompatible VMs, on-premises storage requirement, initial replication batching, cost estimation

## Setting up site Recovery

- Prerequisites:
  - 📝 Minimum permissions: Virtual Machine Contributor, Site Recovery Contributor, write to selected storage account.
  - Create storage account to store replicated VMs
  - Create VNet
  - Plan with **[Azure Site Recovery Deployment Planner](#azure-site-recovery-deployment-planner)**
- 📝 Steps:
  1. Set up **Recovery Services vault**
     - Create a resource -> Management Tools -> Backup and Site Recovery
     - It stores your back-ups and recovery points.
     - Backups are protected with Azure Backup (prevention, alerting)
     - 💡 Create or manage a Recovery Services vault **in the context of the target service.**
     - Central monitoring: Azure VMs + on prem, RBAC
     - ***Azure Recovery Services vs Back-up Vault***
       - You can no longer create Backup vaults, and all existing Backup vaults have been upgraded to Recovery Services vaults.
  2. Set up target environment in Azure
     - Select storage, recovery vault and network
     - LRS or GRS storage is recommended, so the data is resilient if a regional outage occurs, or if the primary region cannot be recovered.
  3. Select a replication goal (**protection goal**)
     - Recovery Services vaults > vault > Recovery > Prepare Infrastructure > Protection goal
     - Select what you want to migrate e.g.
       - **VMware**: Select To Azure > Yes, with VMWare vSphere Hypervisor.
       - **Physical machine**: Select To Azure > Not virtualized/Other.
       - **Hyper-V**: Select To Azure > Yes, with Hyper-V. If Hyper-V VMs are managed by VMM, select Yes.
  4. Set up the source environment
     - Download and import ASR configuration server and process server into vCenter Server
  5. Replicate the VMs that you want to migrate to Azure
     - You can create **replication policy**
       - You set how often recovery points will be created.
       - Recovery Services vault  -> Site Recovery infrastructure > Replication Policies > +Replication Policy.
     - Enable replication directly
       - In the vault, click +Replicate.
       - Select VMs
     - Everything is copied in storage.
       - 💡 **Paging files** have a lot of churn and will generate a lot of replication events.
         - You can optimize via:
           - Split the single virtual disk into two virtual disks. One virtual disk has the operating system, and the other has the paging file.
           - Exclude the paging file disk from replication.
         - **Pagingfile**: a pagefile is a reserved portion of a hard disk that is used as an extension of random access memory (RAM) for data in RAM that hasn't been used recently.
  6. Run **test failover**: it's *no impact migration testing*.
  7. Switch production environment to Azure
     - Create a **recovery plan**
       - Recovery plan describes the way migration will work in the event of a disaster.
       - In recovery plan, you can:
         - Change order of VM starts.
         - Customize fail-over
           - Run scripts via **Azure Automation**
             - **Azure Automation**
               - Runs runbooks (piece of script of NodeJs, PowerShell, Python)
               - Has support for modules.
           - Select order
             - Create groups
               - VMs in same group are shut down and booted in the same time
               - Across groups they're booted & shut down sequentially, without groups at the same time
           - Choose VM size and customize other settings by c licking on *"replicate items"* in *recovery plan*.
         - Set the target IP address.
           - 💡 If you don't provide an address, the failed-over machine uses DHCP.
         - You can use Hybrid Use Benefit (up to 40% cut for existing Windows Server licenses)
     - **Failover** to azure on recovery plan
       - Settings > Replicated items -> Click the machine > Failover.
       - **Failover & Failback**
         - The **failover** operation is the process of switching production to a backup facility (normally your recovery site)
         - Failover isn't automatic but a manual process.
         - **Unplanned failover**
           - E.g. natural or IT disaster.
           - Done from latest point with minimal data loss
         - **Planned failover**
           - You choose the point, zero data loss
           - A **failback** operation is the process of returning production to its original location after a disaster or a scheduled maintenance period.
             - Failback is a planned failover from Azure to on-premises
           - **Flow**: Go to vault -> Click on "planned failover" -> choose data synchronization -> Choose between a full download (quicker) or synchronization of delta changes (lesser downtime)
             - Two ways to synchronize data:
               - **Full download**: A full download is faster but requires the VM to be shutdown which couses more downtime.
               - **Minimize downtime**: More time to synchronize the changes, but the VM is not shut down so less downtime.
     - After failover, ***Commit migration for production***
       - Choose VMs for fully migration, click on "Complete migration" on recovery plan.

## From on-premises to Azure

1. Set up an Azure storage account
2. Create a vault
3. Select a protection goal: To Azure > Not virtualized/Other
   - 💡In Azure Backup it's called Backup Goal
4. Set up the source environment
   - Recovery > Prepare Infrastructure > Source > +Configuration server > Add Server
   - Download the vault registration key
   - Download & install the **Site Recovery Unified Setup** installation file.
5. Set up the target environment: Prepare infrastructure > Target
6. Create a replication policy to choose when (how often) to replicate
   - Site Recovery infrastructure > Replication Policies > +Replication Policy.
7. Enable replication
   - ❗ Limitations:
   - 64 bit only.
   - Max disk size: 4TB
   - Max OS size: 2TB but for generation 2 hyper-v it's 200GB
