# Hybrid Connections

## Site-to-Site VPN Connections

- A Site-to-Site (S2S) connection is a connection over IPsec/IKE (IKEv1 or IKEv2) VPN tunnel.
  - Azure-provided name resolution
    - No configuration, azure based address
    - Name resolution that uses your own DNS server
- 📝 In order to do it with on-prem, following steps are followed:
  1. Create a new custom VNet and gateway subnet
     - Deploy VNet (addresses should be free on-prem)
  2. Create a VPN Gateway
     - Deploy **Gateway Subnet** in VNet
     - Deploy **VPN Gateway**
       - Settings:
         - VPN type
           - **Policy based** = static routing
           - **Route based** = dynamic routing
             - Most VPNs are route based.
         - SKU: Affects number of tunnels and the aggregate throughput benchmark.
         - Virtual Networks: Associate VNet with gateway.
           - Each VNet requires its own VPN gateway.
     - You can see IP address in portal after deployment.
  3. Add a local site (Local network gateway)
     - +Create a resource => Local network gateway
     - Register IP address and address space of on-prem network.
       - So the routing table can be built by Azure.
  4. Configure a VPN device
     - Microsoft lists VPN devices that works well with Azure
       - e.g. Cisco, Juniper, Ubiquiti, and Barracuda Networks.
     - Download & run configuration script for the VPN device.
  5. Create VPN connection
     - VNet Resource -> Overview -> Connected devices -> VPN Gateway > Connections > +Add
       - Connection type: Select Site-to-site(IPSec)
       - Shared Key: use key from your device or generate key & use in both places
  6. Verify VPN connection
     - In Connection object you should see "Succeeded"

## ExpressRoute

- With ExpressRoute, you can establish connections to Microsoft cloud services, such as Microsoft Azure, Office 365, and CRM Online.
- ExpressRoute connections do not go over the public Internet.
  - More reliable, faster speeds, lower latencies, higher security.
- Good for scenarios like periodic data migration, replication for business continuity, disaster recovery, and other high-availability strategies

### ExpressRoute pricing

- You pay for Circuit bandwidth (50 MBPS to 10 50 etc)
- If you choose metered not unlimited => Writing to Azure is free, fetching from Azure costs per GB
- ❗ You can have up to 10 virtual networks connections on a standard ExpressRoute circuit, and up to 100 on a premium ExpressRoute circuit.

### ExpressRoute connection options

- Connectivity providers can offer one or more connectivity models.
- Features and capabilities are identical.
- **CloudExchange Co-location** *(Layer 2: Data-link, or Layer 3: Network)*
  - If you're in a facility with a cloud exchange, you can use their ethernet exchange.
- **Point-to-point ethernet connection** *(Layer 2: Data-link, or Layer 3: Network)*
- **Any-to-any (IPVPN) Connection** *(typically Layer 3: Network)*
  - You can integrate your WAN with Microsoft cloud.
    - WAN: Wide area network, geographically distributed private telecommunications network that interconnects multiple LANs.
  - Microsoft cloud can be connected to WAN like any other office branch.

### ExpressRoute creation

1. On portal select "Resources" => "Create ExpressRoute circuit"
2. Select connectivity provider (Telia etc)
3. Bandwidth => You can always increase, recommended to start low
4. Billing model => Unlimited (flat fee), metered (pay only for data transfer outside Microsoft network, egress)
5. Deployment is done => Microsoft is open to connections
6. Then you enable connection on your side & configure via service key provided in Azure

### ExpressRoute monitoring

- Within Log Analytics you have **NPM: Network Performance Monitor**.
- Enables you to monitor
  - throughput, latency, packet loss across various VNets
  - All paths in network in a network map, see latencies across the hubs
- Requires installation of Log Analytics Agent
  - Both on Azure VMs and on-prem in at least one server of each VNet.
- Can be integrated with **SCOM (System Center Operations Management)**
  - It works with Microsoft Windows Server and Unix-based hosts.
  - The agent watches several sources on that computer, including the Windows Event Log

### Co-existence of ExpressRoute and Site-to-site

- Why?
  - You can configure a Site-to-Site VPN as a secure failover path for ExpressRoute
  - Site-to-Site VPNs to connect to sites that are not part of your network, but that are connected through ExpressRoute
    - Requires two gateways, one type of VPN, other one type of ExpressRoute.
- ❗ Limitations
  - Transit routing is not supported.
    - You cannot route (via Azure) between your local network connected via Site-to-Site VPN and your local network connected via ExpressRoute.
    - Transit routing is supported when VNets are peered instead.
