# Resource groups

- Logical grouping of resources that shares the same lifecycles.
  - Resource group holds different unique resources.
  - Resource groups can contain resources that reside in different regions.
    - Location of resource group is just the meta data for the resource group.

## Tags

- Categorization / organization of resource groups for e.g. billing, management
- E.g. `Dept: IT`
- 💡 Tags are not inherited
- ❗ Max 15 tag name/value pairs.

## Locks

- For accidental deletion or accidental changes to resources within a resource group.
- Consists of two locks:
  - `CanNotDelete`
    - Authorized users can still read and modify a resource, but they can't delete the resource.
  - `ReadOnly`
    - Authorized users can read a resource, but they can't delete or update the resource.
    - Same as giving everyone a ***Reader*** role.
- Locks are inherited from resources within the resource group.

## IAM

- Access control, RBAC
- Roles are inherited
- ***Role assignment***: Role definition role (role, e.g. Reader) + Person/Scope/Service Principal + Scope

## Policies

- Azure entity that controls behaviors within a resource group
  - Allow you to keep compliant with corparate standards and SLAs.
  - Set in a ***scope*** with a ***name*** and ***definition***.
    - Scope: E.g. resource group, subscription.
    - Definition: E.g. *"Allow resource types"*
      - Name, description, Policy (e.g. `azurepolicy.rules.json`), Parameters (e.g. `azurepolicy.parameters.json`)

## Events

- Create event subscriptions triggered by the resources group in Event Grid.

## Automation Script

- Can be added to library to be redeployed later on.
  - ❗ All resources cannot be redeployed
  - 💡 Must change the name to avoid duplicates.
- ARM templates for resource groups can also be found on [GitHub](https://github.com/Azure/azure-quickstart-templates).
- You can *Add to library*, or click on *Deploy* to deploy directly.

## Moving Resources

- You can move resources to another resource group or subscription.
- ❗ All resources cannot be moved.
- Ways of moving
  - Using CLI: `az resource move --destination-group new-rg --id resourceid`
  - In portal: Overview → Move

## Alerts

1. **Target**: What resource and where
2. **Criteria**: What specific action
3. **Details**: Who, when, where, how
4. **Action Group**: Who to inform and how to inform them

## Metrics

1. **Resource group**: Where to look at the metric
2. **Resource type**: The type of resource to look at
3. **Available metrics**: What specifics about the metrics
4. **Chart**: Graphic display of the metric
