# Azure AD Entities

## Overview

- Azure AD entities are objects registered in Azure AD.
- They're uniquely identifiable.

### Security principal

- Also known as **security identity** or **security object**.
- Defines the access policy and permissions for the user/application in the Azure AD tenant.
- Enables
  - Authentication of the user/application during sign-in.
  - Authorization during resource access (Azure RBAC).
- There are two types of security principals:
  - Users: See [user principals](#users).
  - Applications: See [service principals](#service-principal).

## Users

### Types of users

- Cloud or Synced (from local AD through AD Connect)
- Member or Guest
  - Members are created within AD directory
  - Guests are invited by administrator or one of other users of Azure AD.

### Common settings

- Usual attributes (e.g. department, phone number, contact, email)
- Setup password policy, expiration policy, flag users needing to reset their password

### Usage Location

- Location is required if you want to assign license to a user within AD.
- Set usage location
  - In portal: Active Directory → Users → Select User → Profile → Settings
- You can then assign license
  - In Portal: Active Directory → Users → Select User → Licenses
- **User Principal name**: Combination of an user name + domain.

### Create new user

- AD → User → new User
- User name
  - Required, e.g. `test@contoso.onmicrosoft.com`
- Properties: Optional information e.g. first name, last name, job title.

### External access

- You can add a user as an External User
- Good for B2B scenarios
  - AD is not required on other business side.

### Self-service password reset

- Scenarios
  - Allows users to change their passwords
  - If you cannot log in somehow
  - Helps with account lockout
- Authentication methods
  - Types:
    - Text message/Phone call
    - Secondary email
    - Security questions
  - Administrator requires one or more methods.
- Manage in portal
  - Steps: Active Directory → Password Reset
  - Configurations
    - **Enable**
      - You can enable for all users or selected users.
      - 💡 Good to first enable for a pilot group to see how it works.
    - **Registration**
      - Require users to register when signing in
        - Prompts user to fill information for authentication methods.
      - After how long user will be prompted to confirm authentication method information
    - **Notifications**
      - Notify users on password resets
      - Notifies all other admins when an admin resets his password

### User access to applications

- In Azure AD you can configure certain access that users can to on application objects.
- [Application registrations](#application-registration)
  - Users can register applications (yes/no)
    - Yes; non-administrators can register applications to be used within the directory.
    - No; only administrators can do it.
- [Enterprise applications](#enterprise-application)
  - Users can consent to apps accessing company data on their behalf (yes/no)
    - Yes; users can consent to allow third party and multi-tenant applications to consent on their own behalf.
  - Users can add gallery apps to their Access Panel (yes/no)
    - No; as an administrator you have to manually integrate the applications through Access Panel

## Groups

- Used to group objects to secure them together.
- Good for performing bulk user updates.
- Helps to:
  - Assign licenses to groups instead of to individually.
  - Delegate permissions to together.
  - Assign enterprise app access to groups.
- Can be assigned vs dynamic:
  - **Assigned**
    - You assign users to groups manually.
    - Static membership.
  - **Dynamic**
    - You select various attributes to make users member of a group
    - Dynamic query e.g. `deparment Equals marketing`.
- **Owners and members**
  - **Owners**: Can add/remove users from the group.
  - **Members**: cannot manage the group, normal permissions
- **Expiration of groups**
  - Groups can automatically expire.

### Managing groups

- You manage in "Azure Directory → Groups"
  - You can assign licenses to a group where each member will get a license.
- **Self-service group management**
  - **Owners manage groups** instead of administrator that manage the group for the owners.
  - Users can request to join in group with providing some business justification.
  - Audits & alerts
    - Everything is logged
    - You can e.g. trigger alert on frequent activities in a group
- **Company Branding**
  - In portal: Active Directory → Users and groups → Company branding
  - Allows you to customize the pages with e.g. banner, sign-in page text, user name hint

### Security vs Microsoft 365 Groups

- **Security groups**
  - Also known as **Azure AD security groups**.
  - [Security principals](#security-principal) [1] used for assigning permissions.
  - Analogous to Security Groups in on-prem Windows Active Directory
- **Microsoft 365 Groups**
  - Also known as **Unified Groups** [2] .
  - Groups users to assign permissions to related resources [2] .

[1]: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-365/community/all-about-groups#what-are-azure-ad-security-groups
[2]: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-365/community/all-about-groups#what-are-microsoft-365-groups

## Devices

- Enables more management
- Device settings show overview in Portal
  - Intune + MDM offer much more control
- You can add work or school account to integrate

### Registration types

#### Register Device

- Basic registration
- Bring your own device (BYOD) scenario
- For mobile devices and Windows 10
  - Enable/disable and additional management (MDM) for mobile devices like intune.
- Enterprise State Roaming
  - Users synchronizes their user settings and application settings data to the cloud.
  - Supported in Windows 10
  - Enchanced security, management and monitoring.
  - Separation of corporate and consumer data in cloud.

#### Join Device

- Corporate owned assets that you want to manage
- E.g. Windows 7 or Windows 10
- You get some benefits e.g. single sign on.

#### Hybrid Join

- You can enable automatic registration for your AD joined computers
- Join device in both local AD and Azure AD
- Grant device user access to apps that need traditional local AD (=on-prem AD) authentication.
- You get service principal for the device
- Actual management is done through Group Policy or System Center Configuration Manager.
  - They're tied in to Azure AD but not part of core AD.
- Relies on AD Connect for synchronization
  - If they're already joined to local AD, they're also registered in Azure AD automatically.
- Configuration
  - Ensure access to external Azure AD URLs.
  - Configure SCP (service connection point) internally.
  - Configure ADFS if required

### Manage in Portal

- Active Directory → Devices
- Configurations
  - Users may join devices to Azure AD
  - Additional administrators on Azure AD joined devices
    - Default is none, you can select users
  - Users may register their devices with Azure AD
  - Require Multi-Factor Auth to join devices
  - Maximum number ofdevices per device
  - Users may sync settings and enterprise app data
    - All, selected, None
  - For more you need PowerShell.

### Azure AD Device Settings/Policies

- **Control permissions**
  - Who's allowed to access join devices?
- **Control sync**
  - Enabled/disabled
- **Device management through Intune or other MDM**
- **Conditional access**
  - Whether or not device has access to resources within your organization

## Applications

- Azure AD IDaaS (Identity Directory as a Service)
- Application types
  - Third party or internal
  - Pre-integrated or proxies
- Automated user provisioning through SCIM 2.0
  - Use provisioning enables synchronization of user account.
  - SCIM
    - System for cross domain identity management.
    - Defined by IETF
    - Control users, groups and their relations
  - Available on select SaaS apps
- In portal, you can assign access to applications
  - AD → Applications → Select application → Users and groups

### Application registration

- Also known as **app registration**
- Identity configuration of an application that allows integration with Azure AD.
- Creates a unique [application object](#application-object) in Azure tenant.
- 💡 You usually use app registrations for apps that you develop yourself.
- Used to create [service principals](#service-principal).
  - Using portal
    - If created using portal, service principal is created as well.
    - Service principal can only be created by creating app registration in portal.
  - APIs
    - If created using Microsoft Graph APIs, service principal object is created in separate step.
    - Service principals can be created using e.g. Azure PowerShell, Azure CLI, Microsoft Graph...
- Using CLI: `az ad app create --display-name "displayName"`

#### Application object

- Object created by an application registration.
- Its object is globally unique with ID known as **app ID** or **client ID**.
- Resides in same tenant application was registered (also known as home tenant).
- It's used to create one or more [service principals](#service-principal).
- It can be seen as a template to create service principal.
  - Or in object-oriented terms; abstract base class for service principal.
  - All service principals created inherits some properties from application.
- It defines three configurations:
  1. How the service can issue tokens in order to access the application.
  2. Resources that the application might need to access.
  3. Actions that the application can take.
- See [application entity in Microsoft Graph](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/graph/api/resources/application) for its scheme

#### Service principal

- An uniquely identifiable object.
- [Security principal](#security-principal) enabling access to Azure AD secured resources.
- Defines the access policy and permissions for the user/application in the Azure AD tenant.
- There are three types of service principal:
  1. Application
     - Created from [application object](#application-object) inheriting some of its properties.
     - Created in each tenant where [application object](#application-object) is used.
     - Describes what [application](#application-object) can access and can be accessed by in tenant.
  2. Managed identity
     - Used to present a managed identity.
     - Managed identities eliminate the need for developers to manage credentials.
     - Created when managed identity is enabled in a resource.
     - They can be can be granted access and permissions.
     - ❗️ They cannot be updated or modified directly
  3. Legacy
     - Created before app registrations were introduced or using legacy ways.
- On portal they can be managed in "Azure AD → Enterprise Applications" blade
- See [service principal entity in Microsoft Graph](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/graph/api/resources/serviceprincipal) for its scheme
- Using CLI
  - Create SP: `az ad sp create --id "<existing-application-id>"`
  - Assign roles: `az role assignment create --assignee "<service-principal-object-id>/<application-id>" --role role_name`

##### Enterprise application

- Service principals are also known as **enterprise applications**
- In Azure portal, service principals are listed  and can be managed in "Azure AD → Enterprise Applications" blade.
- Enterprise Applications is category of Service Principal where
  - Service Principal and Application registration are in same tenant.
  - Service Principal has tag `WindowsAzureActiveDirectoryIntegratedApp` [1]
    - ❗️ Otherwise it won't be listed in "Azure AD → Enterprise Applications" [1]
    - 💡 You can add tag using `az ad sp update --id "service_principal_object_id" --add tags WindowsAzureActiveDirectoryIntegratedApp`.

[1]: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/module/azuread/new-azureadserviceprincipal?view=azureadps-2.0#parameters

#### Application object vs service principal

- *Application object* is base template to derive to create *service principal objects*.
- *Application object* has
  - One-to-one relation with software application.
  - One-to-many relation with service principals.
- Deleting an *application object* delete its associated *service principal objects*.
  - ❗️ Restoring it will not restore *service principal objects* back.
- Tenancy
  - *Application object* is global representation of an application for use across all tenants.
  - *Service principal* is the local representation for use in a specific tenant.
    - It must be created in each tenant where the application is used.
    - A single-tenant application has only one service principal (in its home tenant).

##### Application registration configurations

- During registration:
  - Tenancy
    - single-tenant (accessible in one tenant),
    - or multi-tenant (accessible in other tenants).
  - Redirect URI
    - Can be customized.
    - It's where the access token is sent to.
- After registration:
  - Add secrets or certificates and scopes to make app accessible
  - Customize the branding (e.g. a logo) in the sign-in dialog
