# Connecting VNets

- You don't need to have a Layer 3 router to route traffic from subnet to subnet
- Azure system routes take care of the routing for you automatically

## Options

### VPN Gateway

- Creates IPsec/IKEv2 tunnel and always-on connection
- Used for connecting VPNs in cloud or hybrid scenario.

### Inside Azure

#### VNet-to-VNet VPN

- Create isolation or administrative boundaries
- Provide cross-region geo-redundancy and replication securely
- No traffic crosses the public internet
- Separate VPN gateways costs while VNet peering is free.
- 💡 Make sure your VNet address spaces do not overlap.
- Troubleshooting
  - Verify connectivity through peering
    - Set up Azure DNS

#### VNet peering

- Seamless connection between two Azure VNets.
  - The peered networks appear as one, for connectivity purposes.
  - ❗ Name resolution does not flow, requires own DNS zone
- Runs on Azure backbone
- 💡 You can peer across regions and subscriptions
- Peering can overcome misplaced VMs
- Helps to optimize costs through *service chaining*
  - I.e. services' communication are chained through a subnet
- ❗ Peering must be done on both sites
  - VNet1 => VNet2 and VNet2 <= VNet1
- Enables **force tunnelling**
  - E.g. when all Internet traffic must go through on-premises firewall device.
  - You can use *user defined routes* for all outbound traffic to go back through VPN gateway to on-premises.
- ❗ Peerings are not transitive
  - If you peer spoke1 <=> spoke2 and spoke2 <=> spoke3 then spoke1 cannot communicate with spoke3 automatically.
  - Common solution is transiting VNet with **Hub and Spoke topology**.
    - Topology is a segmentation
      - **When to segment with VNets and when with subnets?**
        - Depends on bureaucratic reasons
        - E.g. different VNets when
          - Different cost centers/groups need management autonomy
          - You want to completely isolate different workloads
    - Name resolution needs configurations
      - You can't do with Azure provided DNS as all your hosts have then `internal.cloudapp.net`
      - In peering azure provided DNS won't work

##### Peering configuration

- **Allow forwarded traffic**
  - Am I peering from a hub VNet that'll have IP-forwarder?
  - Allow peers (other VNets) to forward traffic to go through.
- **Allow gateway transit**
  - Am I hosting a VPN gateway?
- **Use remote gateways**
  - Is this network use peers gateway?
  - ❗ VNets must be in same region

##### Peering troubleshooting tips

- Azure blocks ICMP between VNets and the Internet
  - ICMP is used for ping
  - Microsoft blocks it because of DDoS attacks.
- Simplify NSGs as much as possible to reduce troubleshooting friction
- Azure portal Diagnose and solve problems/Resource health blade is useful
- [Network Watcher](#network-watcher) and [Network Performance Monitor](#network-performance-monitor) make troubleshooting much easier

###### Network Watcher

- Shows where's the traffic is captured/denied
- Suite of tools
  - **Topology**
    - E.g. VNETs, subnets, VMs, NICs
  - **Variable Packet Capture**
    - Captures TCP packages at NIC level as wireshark files.
  - **IP Flow Verify**
    - Troubleshoots NSG
  - **Next hop**
    - Troubleshoots route tables
  - **Connection troubleshoot**
    - Why it does not connect?
  - Diagnostics Logging
  - Security Group View
  - NSG Flow Logging
  - VPN Gateway Troubleshooting
  - Network Subscription Limits
  - Role Based Access Control
- Can be enabled on VMs
  - In Portal you can search for "Network Watcher" and enable

###### Network Performance Monitor

- Network monitoring solution for hybrid networks
- E.g. top network health events, ExpressRoute monitor, service endpoint monitor, performance monitor
- It ties in logs/metrics with Log Analytics.
- Part of Insights & Analytics Azure management solution.
- Works with installing Microsoft Monitoring Agent (MMA) in VM.
- ***Flow***
  1. Deploy Insight & Analytics and then select Network Performance Monitor
  2. Choose VM and click on "Connect", it'll install `MicrosoftMonitoringAgent`

#### VNet states

- **Initiated**
  - When a peering to the second virtual network from the first virtual network, the peering status is *Initiated* [2]
  - A peering gets *Initiated* state by default once deployed and other node is missing
  - For peering to be completed, one of the nodes must be on *Initiated* state before they're links
- **Connected**
  - Once peering is created from second VNet to first VNet that already has peering, peering status become *Connected*
  - Peering status of first VNet change from *Initiated* to *Connected*
  - ❗️ Peering is not established if status for both peerings is not *Connected*
- **Disconnected**
  - One of the links created was deleted [1]
  - To re-establish a peering connection, there's two options
    - Re-crate [1]
      1. Delete the link
      2. Recreate it
    - Update, the state of *Disconnected* peering should be updated to *Initiated*:

      ```sh
        az network vnet peering update \
          --name '<< pering name>>' \
          --resource-group '<<resource-group-name>>' \
          --vnet-name '<< prd-vnet-name >>' \
          --set peeringState='Initiated'
      ```

[1]: https://github.com/MicrosoftDocs/azure-docs/blob/bf1c1c29f49daa86d805262b381685ab3f2b101f/articles/virtual-network/virtual-networks-faq.md#my-vnet-peering-connection-is-in-disconnected-state-why-cant-i-create-a-peering-connection
[2]: https://github.com/MicrosoftDocs/azure-docs/blob/437febd11602909bb9de28661c0f1a68ba071a10/articles/virtual-network/virtual-network-manage-peering.md#requirements-and-constraints

### Hybrid Connections

#### Site-to-site VPN

- Two VPN devices connect to each other.
- **Flow**
  1. Deploy a ***VPN Gateway*** resource in Azure
     - Requires gateway subnet (or DMZ subnet).
     - Different SKUs: Basic, VpnGw1, VpnGw2, VpnGw3
       - You get more bandwidth, site-to-site and point-to-site points.
       - Don't use basic for production
     - You can see the deployed VPN Gateway in *Connected Devices* in subnet.
  2. Deploy a ***Local Network Gateway*** as well.
     - For your on-prem gateway device, you need to set up one of the route table configurations:
       - **PolicyBased**
         - Handle route tables manually
         - ❗ Does not work with BGP failover, active-to-active configurations
         - **RouteBased**
           - 💡 Always use if possible
           - Some VPN devices do not support it
           - What's compatible is documented on Microsoft docs.
  3. Create a connection between two gateways
     - Create local-to-azure in Local Network Gateway
     - Create azure-to-local in VPN Gateway
     - In Shared Key in connection blade, specify a key.

#### Point-to-site VPN

- Allows access to Azure resources through VPN tunnel from a client agent.
- More portable way
- **Flow**
  1. On Azure deploy VPN gateway
  2. In Point-to-site configuration blade download VPN client
  3. Deploy agent (a VPN Client) from VPN gateway
  4. Install on individual endpoints (e.g. laptops)
- Allows connection outside network perimeter

#### Azure ExpressRoute

- High speed secure connection between on-prem and cloud

#### Best practices for High Availability

- **Combine ExpressRoute and VPN**
  - In gateway subnet
    - Deploy ExpressRoute gateway
    - Deploy VPN Gateway
  - Both gateways gives access to front-end tier and a jump box in a management subnet
  - If ExpressRoute goes down VPN gateway gets activated
- **Deploy two VPNs**
  - Requires enabling BGP in gateway link
    - Robust routing
    - Enable active-to-active connection configuration
    - ❗ Only allowed RouteBased routing configuration
  - Two VPN gateways on-prem
    - Allows redundant active-to-active connection to single gateway.
    - You have one active and one stand-by gateway

## System Routes vs. User-defined Routes

- **Situations**
  - You need to move one VM to another VNet.
    - It requires re-deploying
  - Isolation and segmentations
    - E.g. development / production VNet
  - **Hub & Spoke Topology**
    - **Hub**: VNet have Virtual Network Appliance (e.g. firewall), or gateway
      - ❗️ *Virtual Network Appliance* as it costs both money and resources.
    - **Spokes**
      - Other VNets (e.g. front-end, back-end)
      - You can force communicates with each other through Hub.
- Internet calls and calls from internet
  - Handled by Azure using system routes
  - You don't need to manipulate them
- If you want to override system routes (e.g. for Hub & Spoke topology)
  - You need User Defined Routing
  - For network appliance you need to configure IP forwarding
    - Enables it to pass on traffic that it's not destined for itself.
