# Benefits of Cloud Computing

- Not an all-or-nothing service
  - You can gradually move to cloud, called also ***lift and shift***
- You're able to spend more time on what matters and less time managing the underlying details.

## Cost effective

- Provides **pay-as-you-go** or **consumption-based** pricing model.
  - No upfront infrastructure costs
  - No need to purchase and manage costly infrastructure/hardware that you may not use to its fullest
  - The ability to pay for additional resources only when they are needed
  - The ability to stop paying for resources that are no longer needed
- Enables better cost predictions using pricing of individual resources/services.
  - You can analyze future growth using historical data.

## Scalable

- Increase or decrease the resources and services used based on the demand or workload at any given time
- Cloud computing supports both:
  - **Horizontal scaling**
    - Scaling "out"
    - Adding more servers that function together as one unit
  - **Vertical scaling**
    - Scaling "up"
    - Adding resources to increase the power of an existing server
      - e.g.Add more CPUs, or add more memory
- Scaling can be done manually or automatically based on e.g.
  - specific triggers such as CPU utilization

## Elastic

- Cloud computing system can automatically add & remove resources to meet the current demand.
- E.g.
  - Add resources for the peak operating hours during which most people access the application
    - Only pay for increased resources during those hours
  - Remove the resources when the traffic normalizes
    - Do not pay anymore

## Current

- Eliminates the burdens of maintaining software patches, hardware setup, upgrades, and other IT management tasks
  - automatically done
- The computer hardware is maintained and upgraded by the cloud provider
  - e.g. if a disk fails it'll be replaced by the cloud provider

## Reliable

- Cloud provider offers data backup, disaster recovery, and data replication services
- Redundancy is often built into cloud services architecture
  - so if one component fails, a backup component takes its place
  - this is referred to as **fault tolerance** and it ensures that your customers aren't impacted when a disaster occurs.

## Global

- Fully redundant datacenters located in various regions all over the globe.
- Enables local presence close to your customers to give them the best response time
- Replicate your services into multiple regions for redundancy and locality
- Select a specific region to ensure you meet data-residency and compliance laws for your customers.

## Secure

- You have:
  - **Physical security**
    - Who can access the building, who can operate the server racks, and so on
    - Walls, cameras, gates, security personnel, employees have access only to those resources that they've been authorized to manage.
  - **Digital security**
    - Who can connect to your systems and data over the network.
    - E.g. only authorized users to be able to log into virtual machines or storage systems running in the cloud
    - Have tools to mitigate security threats that you can use.
- Broad set of policies, technologies, controls, and expert technical skills
  - can provide better security than most organizations can otherwise achieve
