# Compute & Serverless & Storage

- Cloud is like ***electricity***
  - only pay for what you need
  - don't worry about how & when power plants upgrade to the latest technology.
  - you don't manage scaling, e.g. many people can move to town and light will stay on
- **Cloud computing**
  - Solves management of hardware and software
  - = Renting resources, like storage space or CPU cycles, on another company's computers
  - **Flexible** and **cost-efficient**,
    - E.g. you only pay for what you use.
- **Cloud Provider**
  - Provides cloud computing services
  - E.g. Microsoft, Amazon, Google
  - Typical services:
    - **Compute power**: such as Linux/Windows servers or web applications
    - **Storage**: such as files and databases and blobs
    - **Networking**: such as secure connections between the cloud provider and your company/datacenter
    - **Analytics**: such as visualizing telemetry and performance data

## Compute Power

- Choose how you want work to be done based on your resources and needs.
- **Virtual Machines (VM)**
  - Emulation of a computer, like your desktop / laptop
  - Includes operating system and hardware, you can install any software on it.
  - More control and responsibility over maintenance.
  - Cloud provider runs it for you in one of its datacenters
    - Often sharing that server with other VMs
- **Containers**
  - Consistent, isolated execution environment for application
  - Similar to VM but they don't require guest operating system
    - They can run on different guest systems
      - Highly portable, can run on-premises or in the cloud with often no changes to application.
    - Takes few seconds/lesser time to start up as there's no OS to initialize
  - Application and its dependencies are packaged into a container
  - **Docker**
    - Open source
    - The leading platform for managing containers.

## Serverless computing

- Lets you run application code without creating, configuring, or maintaining a server
- Your application is broken into separate functions that runs when triggered by some action/event
- Good for automation e.g. serverless process that automatically sends an email confirmation after a customer makes an online purchase.
- pay for the processing time used by each function as it executes.
  - ❗On contrast, VMs and containers are running even if the applications on them are idle.

## Storage

- Most devices and applications read and/or write data
  - E.g. when leaving a voicemail
- Cloud providers offers different services
  - e.g. for storing a text you can use file on disk.
  - e.g. for relationships in address book, you can use a database
- Advantage of a cloud-based data storage is you can scale to meet your needs.
