# Service-level Agreements (SLA)

- Formal documents to define the performance standards that apply to Azure.
- Specify also what happens if a service or product fails to perform to a governing SLAs specification.
- There are SLAs for individual Azure products and services.
- ❗ Azure does not provide SLAs for most services under the Free or Shared tiers
  - e.g. Azure Advisor
- Three key characteristics of SLAs for Azure products and services:
  1. **Performance Targets**
     - Specific to each Azure product and service.
     - E.g. uptime guarantees or connectivity rates
  2. **Uptime and Connectivity Guarantees**
     - 📝 Monthly Uptime % = `(Maximum Available Minutes-Downtime) / Maximum Available Minutes X 100`
     - 📝 Range from 99.9% ("three nines") to 99.999% ("five nines") for any paid tier service.
       - In other words minimum SLA for all non-free Azure services are 99.9%
     - E.g. [Azure Cosmos DB](./3.2.1.%20Databases.md#azure-cosmos-db) (Database) service SLA offers 99.999 percent uptime
       - meaning it allows for about 5 minutes of total downtime per year.
       - also includes low-latency commitments of less than 10 milliseconds on DB read + write operations.
  3. 📝 **Service credits**
     - Given to paying Azure customers if uptime percentage is lower than given in SLA.
     - Describe how Microsoft will respond if an Azure product or service fails to perform to its governing SLAs specification.
     - E.g. customers may have a discount applied to their Azure bill, as compensation for an under-performing Azure product or service.
- Read more: [SLA Summary for Azure Services](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/support/legal/sla/summary/)

## Composite SLA

- Result of combining SLAs across different service offerings.
- 📝 Calculating downtime
  - E.g. web app (99.95% SLA from Azure) writes to SQL database (99.99% SLA from Azure)
    - Composite SLA = `99.95 percent × 99.99 percent = 99.94 percent`
      - = `0.9995 * 0.9999 = 0.9994`
    - Means combined probability of failure is higher than the individual SLA values
- You can improve the composite SLA by creating independent fallback paths.
  - E.g. if the SQL Database is unavailable, you can put transactions into a queue for processing at a later time.
    - Web app (99.95%) writes to either SQL Database (99.99%) or queue (99.9%)
    - Application is still available even if it can't connect to the database.
      - ❗But it fails if both the database and the queue fail simultaneously.
    - If the expected percentage of time for a simultaneous failure is **0.0001 × 0.001**
      - the composite SLA for this combined path of a database or queue would be:
        - `1.0 − (0.0001 × 0.001) = 99.99999 percent`
    - If we add the queue to our web app, the total composite SLA is:
    - `99.95 percent × 99.99999 percent = ~99.95 percent`
    - Improves SLA but application logic gets more complicated
      - You are paying more to add the queue support and there may be data-consistency issues you'll have to deal with due to retry behavior.

## Application SLA

- By creating your own SLAs, you can set performance targets to suit your specific Azure application.
- 💡 >= four 9's (99.99%) SLA performance targets =>
  - manual intervention from failures may not be enough (difficult to be quick enough)
  - should have self-diagnosing & self-healing solutions.

### Resiliency

- **Resiliency** is the ability of a system to recover from failures and continue to function.
- High availability and disaster recovery are two crucial components of resiliency
  - 📝 **Disaster recovery**: When Godzilla destroys your data center, you do have alternative locations to keep providing your service and protocols/means for the other location to know how to keep delivering the service.
- **Failure Mode Analysis (FMA)**
  - Goal:
    - Identify possible points of failure.
    - Define how the application will respond to those failures.
- Read more: [Designing resilient applications for Azure](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/architecture/framework/resiliency/overview)

### High availability

- 📝 Availability is often given as percentage uptime
- Refers to the time that a system is functional and working.
- Most providers prefer to maximize the availability of their Azure solutions by minimizing downtime.
  - ❗ As you increase availability, you also increase the cost and complexity of your solution.
  - As your solution grows in complexity, you will have more services depending on each other.
    - You might overlook possible failure points in your solution if you have any interdependent services.
    - 💡E.g. a workload that requires 99.99 percent uptime shouldn't depend upon a service with a 99.9 percent SLA.
- Read more: [Availability choices for Azure compute](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/architecture/guide/technology-choices/compute-decision-tree#availability)
