# Azure Services

- 📝 Microsoft notifies at least 1 months before ending support for for an Azure service that does NOT have a successor service.
- **App Hosting**
  - Run entire your web application on a managed platform on Linux & Windows
  - In Azure Marketplace there are huge range of third party products you can run on Azure
    - Including SAP & SQL database solutions
- **Integration**
  - Logic apps and service bus connect applications & services
  - Allow for workflows to orchestrate business processes on cloud or on-premises
- **Security**
  - Security is integrated in every aspect of Azure
  - Hardened structures (designed to withstand a range of threats) & global security intelligence monitoring
  - **Azure Identity Management** gives you tight control to choose who gets access to what.

## Compute

- Primarily for  performing calculations, executing logic and running applications
- Covers virtual machines, containers, serverless computing including microservices
- 📝 Some examples:
  - **Azure Virtual Machines**: Windows or Linux virtual machines (VMs) hosted in Azure
  - **Azure Virtual Machine Scale Sets**: Scaling for Windows or Linux VMs hosted in Azure
  - **Azure Kubernetes Service**: Enables management of a cluster of VMs that run containerized services
  - **Azure Service Fabric**: Distributed systems platform. Runs in Azure or on-premises
  - **Azure Batch**: Managed service for parallel and high-performance computing applications
  - **Azure Container Instances**: Run containerized apps on Azure without provisioning servers or VMs
  - **Azure Functions**: An event-driven, serverless compute service

## Networking

- Helps you optimize application performance & scalability
- Links compute resources and provides access to applications
- Configure & control traffic into and out of Azure efficiently e.g. from on-premises to Azure and vice versa.
- 📝 Some examples:
  - **Azure Virtual Network**: Connects VMs to incoming Virtual Private Network (VPN) connections
  - **Azure Load Balancer**: Balances inbound and outbound connections to applications or service endpoints
  - **Azure Application Gateway**: Optimizes app server farm delivery while increasing application security
  - **Azure VPN Gateway**: Accesses Azure Virtual Networks through high-performance VPN gateways
  - **Azure DNS**: Provides ultra-fast DNS responses and ultra-high domain availability
  - **Azure Content Delivery Network**: Delivers high-bandwidth content to customers globally
  - **Azure DDoS Protection**: Protects Azure-hosted applications from distributed denial of service (DDOS) attacks
  - **Azure Traffic Manager**: Distributes network traffic across Azure regions worldwide
  - **Azure ExpressRoute**: Connects to Azure over high-bandwidth dedicated secure connections
  - **Azure Network Watcher**: Monitors and diagnoses network issues using scenario-based analysis
  - **Azure Firewall**: Managed, highly available/scalable firewall mainly for non-HTTP/s protocols.
  - **Azure Virtual WAN**: Creates a unified wide area network (WAN), connecting local and remote sites

## Storage

- Includes disks attached to virtual machines, file shares, databases
- They can expand & shrink necessarily
- 4 main types of storage services:
  - **Azure Blob storage**: Storage service for very large objects, such as video files or bitmaps
  - **Azure File storage**: File shares that you can access and manage like a file server
  - **Azure Queue storage**: A data store for queuing and reliably delivering messages between applications
  - **Azure Table storage**: A NoSQL store that hosts unstructured data independent of any schema
- Common characteristics:
  - **Durable** and highly available with redundancy and replication.
  - **Secure** through automatic encryption and role-based access control.
  - **Scalable** with virtually unlimited storage.
  - **Managed**, handling maintenance and any critical problems for you.
  - **Accessible** from anywhere in the world over HTTP or HTTPS.

## Mobile

- Makes it easy & quick for developers to create mobile backend services for iOS, Android, Windows.
- Features
  - Corporate sign-in
  - Connecting to on-premises data & resources such as SAP, Oracle, SQL Server, and SharePoint.
  - Offline data synchronization.
  - Broadcasting push notifications.
  - Autoscaling to match business needs.

## Databases

- Multiple database services to store a wide variety of data types and volumes.
  - with global connectivity & instant data availability
- 📝 Some examples:
  - **Azure Cosmos DB**: Globally distributed database that supports NoSQL options
  - **Azure SQL Database** : Fully managed relational database with auto-scale, integral intelligence, and robust security
  - **SQL Data Warehouse**
    - A cloud data warehouse for the enterprise
    - Characterized by high resiliency through automatic scaling.
  - **Azure Database for MySQL**: Fully managed and scalable MySQL relational database with high availability and security
  - **Azure Database for PostgreSQL**: Fully managed and scalable PostgreSQL relational database with high availability and security
  - **SQL Server on VMs**: Host enterprise SQL Server apps in the cloud
  - **Azure Synapse Analytics**: Fully managed data warehouse with integral security at every level of scale at no extra cost
  - **Azure Database Migration Service**: Migrates your databases to the cloud with no application code changes
  - **Azure Cache for Redis**: Caches frequently used and static data to reduce data and application latency
  - **Azure Database for MariaDB**: Fully managed and scalable MariaDB relational database with high availability and security

## Web

- 📝 Some examples:
  - **Azure App Service**: Quickly create powerful cloud web-based apps
  - **Azure Notification Hubs**: Send push notifications to any platform from any back end.
  - **Azure API Management**: Publish APIs to developers, partners, and employees securely and at scale.
  - **Azure Cognitive Search**: Fully managed search as a service.
  - **Web Apps feature of Azure App Service**: Create and deploy mission-critical web apps at scale.
  - **Azure SignalR Service**: Add real-time web functionalities easily.

## Internet of things

- Internet allows any item that's online-capable to access valuable information
  - This ability is for devices to garner & relay information for data analysis is called Internet of Things (IoT).
  - E.g. smart watches, smart thermostats, smart refrigerators. Personal computers used to be the norm.
- 📝 Some examples:
  - **IoT Central**: Fully-managed global IoT software as a service (SaaS) solution that makes it easy to connect, monitor, and manage your IoT assets at scale
  - **Azure IoT Hub**: Integrate sensors & devices and manage them.
    - Messaging hub that provides secure communications between and monitoring of millions of IoT devices
  - **IoT Edge**: Push your data analysis models directly onto your IoT devices, allowing them to react quickly to state changes without needing to consult cloud-based AI models.

## Big data

- Big Data = large volumes of data
  - E.g data from weather systems, communications systems, genomic research, imaging platforms
- Hard to analyze and make decisions
  - Traditional forms of processing and analysis becomes no longer appropriate.
  - Solution: Open source cluster technologies
- Azure supports a broad range of technologies and services to provide big data and analytic solutions.
- 📝 **Some examples**
  - **Azure Synapse Analytics**
    - Run analytics at a massive scale using a cloud-based Enterprise Data Warehouse (EDW) that leverages massive parallel processing (MPP) to run complex queries quickly across petabytes of data
  - **Azure HDInsight**: Process massive amounts of data with managed clusters of Hadoop clusters in the cloud.
  - **Azure Data Lake Analytics**: Easily develop and run massively parallel data transformation and processing programs over petabytes of data.
  - **Azure Databricks**: Collaborative Apache Spark–based analytics service that can be integrated with other Big Data services in Azure.
  - **Data Lake Store**: secure, massively scalable and built to the open HDFS standard

## Artificial Intelligence

- The core is Machine Learning.
  - Allows computers to use existing data to forecast future behaviors, outcomes, and trends.
  - Computers learn without being explicitly programmed.
- Forecasts or predictions can make apps and devices smarter.
  - E.g. when you shop online, machine learning helps recommend other products you might like based on what you've purchased.
- 📝 **Some examples**
  - **Azure Machine Learning Service**: Cloud-based environment you can use to develop, train, test, deploy, manage, and track machine learning models.
    - Can auto-generate a model and auto-tune it for you.
    - Lets you start training on your local machine, and then scale out to the cloud
  - **Azure Machine Learning Studio**: Collaborative, drag-and-drop visual workspace where you can build, test, and deploy machine learning solutions using pre-built machine learning algorithms and data-handling modules
  - **Azure Cognitive services** (pre-built APIs)
    - **Vision**: Image-processing algorithms to smartly identify, caption, index, and moderate your pictures and videos.
    - **Speech**: Convert spoken audio into text, use voice for verification, or add speaker recognition to your app.
    - **Knowledge mapping**: Map complex information and data in order to solve tasks such as intelligent recommendations and semantic search.
    - **Bing Search**: Add Bing Search APIs to your apps and harness the ability to comb billions of webpages, images, videos, and news with a single API call.
    - **Natural Language processing**: Allow your apps to process natural language with pre-built scripts, evaluate sentiment and learn how to recognize what users want.

## DevOps

- Brings together people, processes, and technology, automating software delivery to provide continuous value to your users.
- 📝 **Some examples**
  - **Azure DevOps**
    - Azure DevOps Services (formerly known as Visual Studio Team Services, or VSTS)
    - Provides development collaboration tools including pipelines, Git repositories, configurable Kanban boards, and automated load testing
      - Consists of:
        - **Azure Repos**: Source control for your code.
        - **Azure Pipelines**: providing build & release services for continuous integration & delivery
        - **Azure Boards**: Agile tools that support planning and tracking work items
        - **Azure Test Plans**: Tools for testing your applications
        - **Azure Artifacts**: Allows teams to work with `maven`, `npm` and `NuGet` packages, like purpose as [artifactory](https://jfrog.com/artifactory/)
  - **Azure DevTest Labs**
    - Creates labs consisting of pre-configured Windows & Linux environments or Azure Resource Manager templates.
    - Good for testing can use to test or demo your applications directly from your deployment pipelines.
