# App Service

- Azure App Service is an HTTP-based service.
- Enables you to build and host many types of web-based solutions without managing infrastructure.
- E.g. you can host web apps, [mobile back-ends](#mobile-apps), and RESTful APIs in several supported programming languages.
- Supports different frameworks such as .NET, .NET Core, Java, Ruby, Node.js, PHP, Python..
- Can scale on both both Windows and Linux-based environments.

## Mobile apps

- Allows developers to create mobile backend as a service (MBaaS)
- Features include
  - Autoscaling
  - Offline data synchronization
  - Broadcasting push notifications
  - Integration with identity providers including Azure Active Directory, Google, Twitter, Facebook, and Microsoft

## Azure Marketplace

- Online store that hosts applications that are certified and optimized to run in Azure.
- Many types of applications are available, e.g. AI / web applications.
- Deployments from the store are done via the Azure portal using a wizard-style user interface.
  - Makes evaluating different solutions easy.

## Pricing tiers

- Categories

  | Category  | Description  |
  | --------- | ------------ |
  | **Dev / Test** | Ideal for less demanding workloads. Focused on providing shared infrastructure. Additional features include custom domains / SSL and manual scale. |
  | **Production** | Ideal for more demanding workloads. Additional features include staging slots, daily backups, and a traffic manager. |
  | **Isolated** | Ideal for workloads that require advanced networking and fine-grained scaling. |

- Within each category, there are different pricing tiers.

### Scale up an App Service

1. Open the [Azure portal](https://portal.azure.com)
2. From the left-hand navigation menu (may need to click on menu icon), select **Dashboard**
3. Select the **App Service** with the name you chose it in the previous exercise.
4. Under **Settings** you see many configurable settings
5. Select **Scale up (App service plan)**.
