# Storage

- Secure, durable, scalable, and easily accessible from across the globe.
- E.g. persistent data across devices for mobile applications.
- Uses REST API endpoints that make data available to huge range of application types & platforms e.g. .NET, JAVA, NODE.

## Benefits

- **Automated backup and recovery**: mitigates the risk of losing data if there is any unforeseen failure or interruption.
- **Replication across the globe**
  - Copies your data to protect it against any planned or unplanned events
    - e.g. scheduled maintenance or hardware failures.
  - Allows you to replicate your data at multiple locations across the globe.
- **Support for data analytics**: supports performing analytics on your data consumption.
- **Encryption capabilities**: You have tight control over who can access the data.
- **Multiple data types**: Almost any e.g. videos, text, like binary files. Many options for SQL and NoSQL data.
- **Data storage in virtual disks**: Up to 32 TB. Significant when you're storing heavy data such as videos and simulations.
- **Storage tiers**: To prioritize access to data based on frequently used vs rarely used information.

## Types of data

### Structured data

- Also called **relational data**
- Data that adheres to a schema.
  - Defines table, fields, clear relationship between two
- Can be stored in e.g. database table with rows and columns.
- Relies on keys to indicate how one row in a table relates to data in another row of another table.
- ðŸ’¡ It's easy to enter, query, and analyze.
  - All of the data follows the same format.
  - E.g. sensor data or financial data.

### Semi-structured data

- Also called as **non-relational** or **NoSQL data**.
- Doesn't fit neatly into tables, rows, and columns.
- Instead uses tags or keys that organize and provide a hierarchy for the data.

### Unstructured data

- Encompasses data that has no designated structure to it
- There are no restrictions on the kinds of data it can hold.
  - e.g. PDF document, a JPG image, a JSON file, video content, etc
- ðŸ’¡More prominent as businesses try to tap into new data sources.

## Azure Storage

- Includes disks attached to virtual machines, file shares, databases
- They can expand & shrink necessarily
- Common characteristics:
  - **Durable** and highly available with redundancy and replication.
  - **Secure** through automatic encryption and role-based access control.
  - **Scalable** with virtually unlimited storage.
  - **Managed**, handling maintenance and any critical problems for you.
  - **Accessible** from anywhere in the world over HTTP or HTTPS.

### Azure Blob Storage

- Also known as **Azure blobs**
- Good for very large objects, such as video files or bitmaps
- Unstructured, meaning that there are no restrictions on the kinds of data it can hold.
- Can manage thousands of simultaneous uploads, massive amounts of video data, constantly growing log files, and can be reached from anywhere with an internet connection.
- Lets you
  - Stream large video or audio files directly to the user's browser from anywhere in the world.
  - Send large volumes of data directly to the browser.
- ðŸ’¡ Also used to store data for backup, disaster recovery, and archiving.
- ðŸ“ Ability to store up to 8 TB of data for virtual machines (VM disks)

#### Storage tiers

1. **Hot storage tier**: optimized for storing data that is accessed frequently.
2. **Cool storage tier**: optimized for data that are infrequently accessed and stored for at least 30 days.
3. **Archive storage tier**: for data that are rarely accessed and stored for at least 180 days with flexible latency requirements.

### Azure Disk Storage

- Also known as **Azure disks**
- Provides disks for virtual machines, applications, and other services to access and use as they need.
- In the background they are page-blobs in a [blob storage](#azure-blob-storage)
- Allows data to be persistently stored and accessed from an attached virtual hard disk.
- Disks can be managed or unmanaged by Azure, and therefore managed and configured by the user.
- ðŸ’¡ Use-case examples: Lift and shift
  - Storing data that is not required to be accessed from outside the virtual machine to which the disk is attached.
- Different sizes and performance levels
  - Solid-state drives (SSDs)
  - Hard disk drives (HDDs)
- ðŸ’¡ Use standard SSD and HDD disks for less critical workloads
  - Premium SSD disks for mission-critical production applications.
- Durable: ZERO% annualized failure rate.

### Azure Data Lake Storage

- ðŸ“ Allows you to perform analytics on your data usage and prepare reports.
- Stores both structured and unstructured data.
- Combines the scalability and cost benefits of object storage with the reliability and performance of the Big Data file system capabilities.
- Supports batch queries, interactive queries, real-time analytics, machine learning, and being a data warehouse.

### Azure File Storage

- Also known as **Azure files**
- File shares that you can access and manage like a file server
- Fully managed file shares in the cloud that are accessible via the industry standard Server Message Block (SMB) protocol.
- Ensures the data is encrypted at rest and in transit.
- Can be mounted concurrently by cloud or on-premises Windows, Linux, and macOS.
- ðŸ“ Any number of Azure virtual machines or roles can mount and access the file storage share simultaneously.
- ðŸ’¡ Good to share files anywhere in the world, diagnostic data, or application data sharing.

### Azure Queue Storage

- A data store for queuing and reliably delivering messages between applications
- ðŸ’¡ Helps build flexible applications and separate functions for better durability across large workloads
  - When application components are decoupled, they can scale independently
  - Provides asynchronous message queueing for communication between application components
- Typically, there are one or more sender components and one or more receiver components.
  - Sender components add messages to the queue
  - Receiver components retrieve messages from the front of the queue for processing
- ðŸ’¡ Use-case examples:
  - Create a backlog of work and to pass messages between different Azure web servers.
  - Distribute load among different web servers/infrastructure and to manage bursts of traffic.
  - Build resilience against component failure when multiple users access your data at the same time.

### Azure Table Storage

- NoSQL data Store
- Scheme-less design

### Encryption Types

#### Azure Storage Service Encryption (SSE)

- For data at rest helps you secure your data.
- It encrypts the data before storing it and decrypts the data before returning it.
- Encryption & decryption are transparent to the user.

#### Client-side encryption

- Data is already encrypted by the client libraries.
- Azure stores the data in the encrypted state at rest, which is then decrypted during retrieval.

### Replication

- Set up when you create a storage account
- Ensures that your data is durable and always available
- Provides regional and geographic replications
  - Protects data against natural disasters and other local disasters like fire or flooding.

### On-premises storage vs Azure data storage

#### Why migrate to cloud

- **Cost effectiveness**
  - Pay-as-you go
  - No dedicated hardware to be purchased, installed, configured and maintained. = no up-front expense (or capital cost).
  - Scalable: No need to have idle hardware
- **Reliability**
  - Managed data backup, load balancing, disaster recovery, and data replication as services to ensure data safety and high availability.
- **Storage types**
  - On-premises => often requires numerous servers and administrative tools for each storage type.
  - Azure has different storage options for each part of your solution.
- **Agility**
  - Requirements and technologies change: No need to reprovisioning & deployment of new infrastructure.
  - Create new services in minutes = change storage back-ends quickly without needing a significant hardware investment.

#### Comparison

| Needs | On-premises | Azure data storage |
| ----- | ----------- | ------------------ |
| **Compliance and security** | Dedicated servers required for privacy and security | Client-side encryption and encryption at rest |
| **Store structured and unstructured data** | Additional IT resources with dedicated servers required | Azure Data Lake and portal analyzes and manages all types of data |
| **Replication and high availability** | More resources, licensing, and servers required | Built-in replication and redundancy features available |
| **Application sharing and access to shared resources** | File sharing requires additional administration resources | File sharing options available without additional license |
| **Relational data storage** | Needs a database server with database admin role | Offers database-as-a-service options |
| **Distributed storage and data access** | Expensive storage, networking, and compute resources needed | [Azure Cosmos DB](./3.2.1.%20Databases.md#azure-cosmos-db) provides distributed access |
| **Messaging and load balancing** | Hardware redundancy impacts budget and resources | Azure Queue provides effective load balancing |
| **Tiered storage** | Management of tiered storage needs technology and labor skill set | Azure offers automated tiered storage of data |
