# Other Azure Services

## Web

- **Azure Notification Hubs**
  - Send push notifications to any platform from any back end.
- **Azure API Management**
  - Publish APIs to developers, partners, and employees securely and at scale.
- **Azure Cognitive Search**
  - Fully managed search as a service.
- **Azure SignalR Service**
  - Add real-time web functionalities easily.

## Internet of things

- Internet allows any item that's online-capable to access valuable information
  - This ability is for devices to garner & relay information for data analysis is called Internet of Things (IoT).
  - E.g. smart watches, smart thermostats, smart refrigerators. Personal computers used to be the norm.
- **IoT Central**
  - 📝 SaaS to manage IoT devices
- **Azure IoT Hub**
  - Takes data, coordinates in and out
  - Integrates sensors, devices and manages them.
  - Messaging hub that provides secure communications between and monitoring of devices
  - **IoT Edge**
    - Allows pushing data analysis models directly onto IoT devices
    - Allowing them to react quickly to state changes without needing to consult cloud-based AI models.

## Big data

- Big Data = large volumes of data
  - E.g data from weather systems, communications systems, genomic research, imaging platforms
- Hard to analyze and make decisions
  - Traditional forms of processing and analysis becomes no longer appropriate.
  - Solution: Open source cluster technologies
- Azure supports a broad range of technologies and services to provide big data and analytic solutions.
- 📝 **Some examples**
  - [Azure Synapse Analytics](./3.2.1.%20Databases.md#azure-synapse-analytics)
  - **Azure HDInsight**
    - Process big data through Hadoop clusters
    - More complete than Azure Data Lake Analytics
  - **Azure Data Lake Analytics**
    - Transform big data on Azure data lake
  - **Azure Databricks**
    - Apache Spark–based analytics service
    - Can be integrated with other Big Data services in Azure.
  - **Data Lake Store**
    - Secure, massively scalable and built to the open HDFS standard
  - **Azure Data Factory**
    - Pipelines for data analysis

## Artificial Intelligence

- The core is Machine Learning.
  - Allows computers to use existing data to forecast future behaviors, outcomes, and trends.
  - Computers learn without being explicitly programmed.
- Forecasts or predictions can make apps and devices smarter.
  - E.g. when you shop online, machine learning helps recommend other products you might like based on what you've purchased.

### Azure Machine Learning Service

- Cloud-based environment you can use to develop, train, test, deploy, manage, and track machine learning models.
- Can auto-generate a model and auto-tune it for you.
- Lets you start training on your local machine, and then scale out to the cloud

### Azure Cognitive services

- 📝 AI SaaS services (pre-built APIs)
- **Vision**: Image-processing algorithms to smartly identify, caption, index, and moderate your pictures and videos.
- **Speech**: Convert spoken audio into text, use voice for verification, or add speaker recognition to your app.
- **Knowledge mapping**: Map complex information and data in order to solve tasks such as intelligent recommendations and semantic search.
- **Bing Search**: Add Bing Search APIs to your apps and harness the ability to comb billions of webpages, images, videos, and news with a single API call.
- **Natural Language processing**: Allow your apps to process natural language with pre-built scripts, evaluate sentiment and learn how to recognize what users want.

### Azure Machine Learning Studio

- Collaborative, drag-and-drop visual workspace for machine learning solutions
- Allows to build, test, and deploy machine learning  models with algorithms and data-handling modules

## DevOps

- Brings together people, processes, and technology, automating software delivery to provide continuous value to your users.

### Azure DevOps

- 📝 Azure DevOps Services (formerly known as Visual Studio Team Services, or VSTS)
- Provides development collaboration tools including pipelines, Git repositories, configurable Kanban boards, and automated load testing
  - Consists of:
    - **Azure Repos**: Source control for your code.
    - **Azure Pipelines**: providing build & release services for continuous integration & delivery
    - **Azure Boards**: Agile tools that support planning and tracking work items
    - **Azure Test Plans**: Tools for testing your applications
    - **Azure Artifacts**: Allows teams to work with `maven`, `npm` and `NuGet` packages, like purpose as [artifactory](https://jfrog.com/artifactory/)

### Azure DevTest Labs

- 📝 Creates labs consisting of pre-configured Windows & Linux environments or Azure Resource Manager templates.
- Good for testing can use to test or demo your applications directly from your deployment pipelines.
