# Encryption (Azure Key Vault, Certificates)

- Process of making data unreadable and unusable to unauthorized viewers.
- To use or read the encrypted data, it must be decrypted with a secret key.
- Last & strongest line of defense in a layered security strategy.

## Encryption types

### Symmetric encryption

- Uses the same key to encrypt and decrypt the data.
- E.g. a desktop password manager application like [password orbit](https://erkinekici.com/projects/password-orbit) encrypts your passwords with your key (derived from your master password & key file). The same key is used when the data needs to be retrieved.

### Asymmetric encryption

- Uses a public key and private key pair.
  - Either key can encrypt but a single key can't decrypt its own encrypted data.
  - To decrypt, you need the paired key.
- Used for things like Transport Layer Security (TLS) (used in HTTPS) and data signing.

## Encryption ways

### Encryption at rest

- Encryption of data at rest
  - Data at rest = data that has been stored on a physical medium
    - e.g. server disk, database or storage account.
- Ensures that data is unreadable without decryption keys/secret
- E.g. if an attacker obtain a hard drive with encrypted data and did not have access to the encryption keys, the attacker would not compromise the data without great difficulty.
- ðŸ’¡ Good to encrypt e.g.
  - critical financial information, intellectual properties, personal data about customers, employees data, even keys & secrets used for the encryption of the data itself.

### Encryption in transit

- Data actively moving from one location to another
  - e.g. across the internet or through a private network.
- Protects the data from outside observers
  - Only the receiver has the secret key that can decrypt the data to a usable form.
- Secure transfer can be handled by several different layers.
  - e.g. in application layer = HTTPS
  - e.g. in network layer = secure channel like virtual private network (VPN)

## Encryption on Azure

- For raw storages: [Azure Storage Service Encryption](#azure-storage-service-encryption)
- For virtual machine disks: [Azure Disk Encryption](#azure-disk-encryption)
- For databases: [Transparent data encryption (TDE)](#transparent-data-encryption-tde)
- For secrets: [Azure Key Vault](#azure-key-vault)

### Azure Storage Service Encryption

- Allows you encrypt raw storage.
- Automatically encrypts your data before persisting it to e.g. Azure Managed Disks, Azure Blob storage, Azure Files, or Azure Queue storage
  - and decrypts the data before retrieval.
- The handling of process is transparent to applications.
  - Encryption, encryption at rest, decryption, and key management

### Azure Disk Encryption

- Helps you encrypt your Windows and Linux IaaS virtual machine disks.
- Uses BitLocker in Windows and the dm-crypt in Linux to provide volume encryption for the OS and data disks.
- Integrated with Azure Key Vault to help you control and manage the disk encryption keys and secrets
  - and you can use [managed service identities](./4.4.%20Identity%20and%20Access%20(Azure%20AD).md#managed-identities) for accessing Key Vault.

### Transparent data encryption (TDE)

- Protection for:
  - Azure SQL Database: Enabled by default.
  - Azure Synapse Analytics
- Performs real-time encryption and decryption at rest of
  - the database
  - associated backups
  - transaction log files
- Uses a symmetric key called the database encryption key.
  - Bring your own key (BYOK) is also supported with keys stored in [Azure Key Vault](#azure-key-vault).

### Azure Key Vault

- ðŸ“ Stores & manages
  - **Secrets**: e.g. passwords, certificates, Application Programming Interface (API) keys, and other secrets.
  - **Keys**: create and control the encryption keys used to encrypt your data.
  - **Certificates**: provision, manage, and deploy your public and private [SSL / TLS](#transport-layer-security-tls)
    - You can create a policy that directs Key Vault to manage the life cycle of a certificate.
    - You can provide contact information for notification about life-cycle events of expiration and renewal of certificate.
    - You can automatically renew certificates with selected issuers
    - Read more on [Azure certificates](#azure-certificates)
- Keys/secrets can be either protected by software or hardware security modules (HSMs)
- Provides secure access, permission control (RBAC) & access logging.
- Simplifies administration e.g. easier to enroll/renew certs.
- Integrate with other Azure services e.g. storage accounts, container registries, event hubs...
  - Applications with [managed service identities](./4.4.%20Identity%20and%20Access%20(Azure%20AD).md#managed-identities) enabled can automatically and seamlessly acquire the secrets they need.

#### Azure certificates

##### Transport Layer Security (TLS)

- Basis for encryption of website data in transit.
- Uses certificates to encrypt and decrypt data.
  - have a life cycle that requires administrator management
  - expired TLS certificates open security vulnerabilities.
- Certificates used in Azure are x.509 v3 that can be y
  - signed by a trusted certificate authority
  - or self-signed
    - not trusted by default as signed by its own creator
    - good for development + testing
- Can contain a private or a public key
  - Keys have an identifiable thumbprint
    - used in the Azure configuration file to identify which certificate a cloud service should use.

##### Types of certificates

###### Service certificates

- Attached to a specific cloud service
  - Enables secure communication to and from the service.
  - E.g. if you deploy a web site, you would want to supply a certificate that can authenticate an exposed HTTPS endpoint.
  - Defined in your service definition =>
    - automatically deployed to the VM that is running an instance of your role.
- You can manage service certificates separately from your services
  - You can also upload service certificates to Azure
  - E.g. a developer could upload a service package that refers to a certificate that an IT manager has previously uploaded to Azure.
    - An IT manager can manage and renew that certificate (changing the configuration of the service) without needing to upload a new service package.
- To update a certificate, you don't need to re-deploy a service package
  - Upload a new certificate
  - Change the thumbprint value in the service configuration file.

###### Management certificates

- Allow you to authenticate with the classic deployment model.
- Allows automation of configuration and deployment of some Microsoft / Azure services.
  - e.g. Visual Studio or the Azure SDK
- Are not related to cloud services.
