# Network Protection

- Important to secure your network from attacks and unauthorized access
- Use a layered approach
  - not enough to just focus on securing the network perimeter or the network security between services inside a network.
  - helps reduce your risk of exposure through network-based attacks
  - secure your internet-facing resource, internal resources, and communication between on-premises networks
  - Combine multiple Azure networking and security services
    - E.g. use Azure Firewall to protect inbound and outbound traffic to the Internet, and Network Security Groups to limit traffic to resources inside your virtual networks.

## Internet protection

- Perimeter of the network
- Focused on limiting and eliminating attacks from the internet.
- Only allow inbound and outbound communication where necessary
  - ensure they are restricted to only the ports and protocols required
    - You can use [Azure Security Center](./4.3.%20Azure%20Security%20Center.md) for this.

### Firewall

- Service that grants server access based on the originating IP address of each request.
- Helps you to provide inbound protection at the perimeter
- You create firewall rule
  - Firewall rule = Ranges of IP addresses to allow access the server.
  - Often includes specific network protocol and port information.

#### Azure Firewall

- Managed, highly available & scalable, network-level, firewall as a service
- Inbound protection for mainly non-HTTP/S protocols.
  - E.g. Remote Desktop Protocol (RDP), Secure Shell (SSH), and File Transfer Protocol (FTP).
- Outbound protection for all ports and protocols
  - Also application-level protection for outbound HTTP/S.

#### Azure Application Gateway

- Load balancer that includes a **Web Application Firewall (WAF)**
  - Provides protection from common, known vulnerabilities in websites.
- Designed to protect HTTP traffic.

#### Network virtual appliances (NVAs)

- Ideal options for non-HTTP services or advanced configurations
- Similar to hardware firewall appliances.

### Distributed Denial of Service (DDoS) Protection

- Any resource exposed on the internet is at risk of being attacked by a denial of service attack.
- 📝 Attacks attempt to overwhelm a network resource
  - sends so many requests that the resource becomes slow or unresponsive.
- 💡 Combine [Azure DDoS Protection](#azure-ddos-protection) with application design best practices.

#### Azure DDoS Protection

- Brings DDoS mitigation capacity to every Azure region
- 📝 Protects your Azure applications by monitoring traffic at the Azure network edge before it can impact your service's availability.
- 📝 You are notified using Azure Monitor metrics within a few minutes of attack detection.

##### Service tiers

###### Basic

- Automatically enabled as part of the Azure platform.
- Always-on traffic monitoring and real-time mitigation of common network-level
- Used by Microsoft's online services use.

###### Standard

- Tuned specifically to Microsoft Azure Virtual Network resources
- Requires no application changes.
- Dedicated traffic monitoring and machine learning algorithms.
- Policies are applied to public IP addresses associated with resources deployed in virtual networks
  - e.g. Azure Load Balancer and Application Gateway.
- Mitigates:
  - **Volumetric attacks**: The attackers goal is to flood the network layer with a substantial amount of seemingly legitimate traffic.
  - **Protocol attacks**: Render a target inaccessible, by exploiting a weakness in the layer 3 and layer 4 protocol stack.
  - **Resource (application) layer attacks**: Target web application packets to disrupt the transmission of data between hosts.

## Traffic inside your virtual network

- Allows you to limit communication between resources to only what is required.

### Virtual network security

#### Network Security Groups (NSGs)

- 📝 Provide a list of allowed and denied communication to and from network interfaces and subnets.
  - Used for communication between virtual machines
- Filter network traffic to and from Azure resources in an Azure virtual network.
  - by source and destination IP address, port, and protocol
- Can contain multiple inbound and outbound security rules

#### Service endpoints

- You can restrict access of services to service endpoints.
  - Allows you to remove public internet access to your services
- Service access become limited to your virtual network.

### Network integration

- Integrate on-premises networks <=> services in Azure
- Different ways: VPN, ExpressRoute

#### Virtual private network (VPN)

- Establish secure communication channels between networks.
- Connects Azure Virtual Network to an on-premises VPN device
- Provide secure communication in-between.

#### Azure ExpressRoute

- Use to provide a dedicated, private connection between your network and Azure
- Lets you extend your on-premises networks into the Microsoft cloud over a private connection facilitated by a connectivity provider.
- Very secure as it sends traffic over the private circuit instead of over the public internet.
  - You can send this traffic through appliances for further traffic inspection.
