# Azure Advanced Threat Protection (ATP)

- Cloud-based security solution that identifies, detects, helps you investigate threats.
- Capable of detecting known malicious attacks and techniques, security issues such as compromised identities, and risks/threats against your network.
- Can be integrated with on-premises Microsoft Defender ATP

## Azure ATP components

### Azure ATP portal

- Own portal at [portal.atp.azure.com](https://portal.atp.azure.com)
  - ❗ User accounts must be assigned to an Azure AD security group that has access to the Azure ATP portal to be able to sign in.
- Through it you can monitor and respond to suspicious activity.
- Allows you to create your Azure ATP instance, and view the data received from Azure ATP sensors.
- Monitor, manage, and investigate threats in your network environment.

### Azure ATP sensor

- Sensors are installed directly on your domain controllers.
- 📝 Monitors domain controller traffic without requiring a dedicated server or configuring port mirroring.

### Azure ATP cloud service

- Runs on Azure infrastructure
- Deployed in the United States, Europe, and Asia.
- Connected to [**Microsoft Intelligent Security Graph**](https://www.microsoft.com/security/blog/2019/05/14/executing-vision-microsoft-threat-protection/)
  - Threats signals are seamlessly shared across all the services in Microsoft Threat Protection, 6.5 trillion signals daily.
    - **Microsoft Threat Protection**
      - Consists of different Azure security services
      - E.g. Office ATP, Microsoft Defender ATP, SmartScreen, Exchange Online Protection (EOP)
  - Provides comprehensive security across multiple attack vectors.
  - Allows you to use [Microsoft Graph Security API](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/graph/security-concept-overview) to connect Microsoft security products, services, and partners to streamline security operations and improve threat protection, detection, and response capabilities.
