# Monitoring (Azure Monitor & Azure Service Health)

- 📝 For auditing, any interaction with Azure is recorded as **Azure Activity Log**

## Azure Monitor

- Solution for collecting, analyzing, and acting on telemetry from cloud and on-premises environments.
- Helps you understand how your applications are performing and proactively identifies issues affecting them and the resources they depend on.
- Aggregated view of different monitoring data
- Increases availability and performance
- Can be integrated with different services
  - 📝 E.g. [Azure Service Health](#azure-service-health) to e.g. see if an issue is global.
- Azure Monitor has its own features for visualizing monitoring data
  - Also can send data different tools such as Dashboards, Views, Power BI

### Data sources

- **Application monitoring data**
  - About the performance and functionality of the code you have written, regardless of its platform.
- **Guest OS monitoring data**
  - Data about the operating system on which your application is running.
  - This could be running in Azure, another cloud, or on-premises.
- **Azure resource monitoring data**
  - Data about the operation of an Azure resource.
- **Azure subscription monitoring data**
  - Data about the operation and management of an Azure subscription.
  - Data about the health and operation of Azure itself.
- **Azure tenant monitoring data**
  - Data about the operation of tenant-level Azure services, such as Azure Active Directory.

### Diagnostic settings

- Collected from e.g. virtual machines and web apps
- **Activity Logs** record when resources are created or modified
- **Metrics** tell you how the resource is performing and the resources that it's consuming.
- Some data types are: guest-level monitoring, performance counters, event logs, crash dumps, sinks, agents.

### Application Insights

- Monitors availability, performance, and usage of web applications
- Leverages data analysis platform in Log Analytics for queries
- Can diagnose errors without waiting for a user to report them.
- Integrates with variety of development tools

### Azure Monitor for containers

- Monitors the performance of workloads in Kubernetes clusters in Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS).
- Collecting memory and processor metrics from controllers, nodes, and containers
- Container logs are also collected.

### Azure Monitor for VMs

- Monitors on-premises, or cloud VMs at scale
- Analyzes the performance and health of Windows and Linux VMs
  - also their different processes and interconnected dependencies on other resources & external processes.

### Responding

#### Azure Alerts

- Azure Monitor proactively notifies you of critical conditions using.
  - e.g. sending a text or email to an administrator who is responsible for investigating an issue.
- Alert rules based on metrics can provide alerts in almost real-time, based on numeric values.
- Alert rules based on logs allow for complex logic across data, from multiple sources.

#### Autoscale

- Uses Autoscale to ensure that you have the right amount of resources running to manage the load on your application effectively.
- Enables you to create rules that use metrics from Azure Monitor, to determine when to scale
  - Help reduce your Azure costs by removing resources that are not being used.
  - You provide the logic that determines when Autoscale should increase or decrease resources.

## Azure Service Health

- 📝 Comprehensive view of the health status of Azure
- Notifies you about Azure services that affect you with impact & information.
  - 📝 Can set-up automatic alerts
- Guides you to prepare for planned maintenance & other changes that could affect the availability of your resources.
- Consists of:
  - **Azure Status**: Global view of the health state of all Azure services.
  - **Service Health**: customizable dashboard that tracks the Azure services you're using in the regions where you use them
    - Shows events such as ongoing service issues, upcoming planned maintenance, or relevant Health advisories
  - **Resource Health**: helps you diagnose and obtain support when an Azure service issue affects your resources.
    - Personalized dashboard of your resources' health
    - Provides technical support to help you mitigate problems
    - Shows when you resources was unavailable because of Azure problems
      - Helps you to understand if an SLA was violated.
