# Cost Optimization Best Practices

## Save on infrastructure

### Use Azure credits

- $50 per month for Visual Studio Professional, $150 per month for Visual Studio Enterprise
- Separate Azure subscription under your account that renews each month while you remain an active Visual Studio subscriber
- ❗No SLA, development and testing only
  - Azure suspends VMs used for production or that run more than 120 hours.

### Use spending limits

- ❗ Not available on pay-only subscriptions, only for subscriptions with a monthly Azure credits.
- Helps you to prevent from exhausting the credit on your account within each billing period.
  - Resets after each period
- Activated by default, you can adjust the spending limit as desired or turn it off.

### Use reserved instances

- Purchase Windows/Linux VMs for one-year or three-year terms with payment of entire period or monthly.
- Allows to save save up to 70 to 80 percent off the pay-as-you-go cost
- 💡 Good for static and predictable virtual machines.

### Choose low-cost locations and regions

- Prices vary across locations and regions
- 💡 Good idea to use them in locations and regions where they cost less.
- ❗ Consider also that moving data between locations can cost extra and total price can get more expensive.
  - Good idea to have them in same region to reduce egress (outgoing network bandwith) traffic between them.

### Research available cost-saving offers

- Keep up to date with offers, and switch to ones with most benefits
- See [Azure Updates](https://azure.microsoft.com/updates/) for updates, roadmaps and announcements.

### Right-size underutilized virtual machines

- Over-sized virtual machines are a common unnecessary expense on Azure
- [Azure Cost Management](./6.3.%20Azure%20Costs%20&%20Tools.md#azure-cost-management) & [Azure Advisor](./6.3.%20Azure%20Costs%20&%20Tools.md#azure-advisor) might recommend right-sizing or shutting down VMs.
- Right-sizing = resizing it to a proper size
  - E.g. downgrading `Standard_D4sv3` with 90% idle VM to `Standard_D2sv3` to reduce 50% cost.
- ❗ Resizing a VM requires it to be stopped, resized, and then restarted.
  - 💡 Takes a few minutes so plan for an outage, or shift your traffic to another instance

### Deallocate virtual machines in off hours

- No need to run VMs every hour of every day if they're only used during certain periods.
- Shut down when not in use and start back up on a schedule
  - Saves money on compute costs, 📝 but you still pay for storage.
- Can use [automation accounts](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/automation/automation-solution-vm-management) or **auto-shutdown** feature on a virtual machine to schedule automated shutdowns.

### Delete unused virtual machines

- Saves you on infrastructure costs but also potentially on licensing and operations.

### Migrate to PaaS or SaaS services

- Evaluate your architecture if it's beneficial to move to PaaS.
  - Azure operateS hardware efficiently and therefore offer PaaS services cheaper.
- Neutral evolution is to go from IaaS to PaaS iteratively when moving to cloud.
- PaaS saves on resource and operational costs.
- Effort varies
  - SQL Server to => Azure SQL Database is very easy.
  - Hard to move multi-tier application to a container or serverless-based architecture
    - No quick winds from cost-saving perspective
- [Azure Architecture Center](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/architecture/) can give ideas for transforming application & best-practices.

## Save on licensing costs

### Linux vs. Windows

- The cost of the product can be different based on the OS you choose.
- Useful to compare pricing to determine whether you can save money.

### Azure Hybrid Benefit

- Allows you to use existing
  - on-premises Windows Server licenses on Azure VMs. (***Azure Hybrid Benefit for Windows Server***)
  - SQL Server licenses for Azure SQL Databases. (***Azure Hybrid Benefit for SQL Server***)
- Pay only linux rates for those virtual machines
- ❗ Through Software Assurance licenses only.

### Use Dev/Test subscription offers

- If you're on Enterprise Agreement: [Enterprise Dev/Test](https://azure.microsoft.com/offers/ms-azr-0148p/)
  - Else [Pay-As-You-Go (PAYG) Dev/Test](https://azure.microsoft.com/offers/ms-azr-0023p/)
- Discounts:
  - No license charges for Windows workloads, only billing you at the Linux rate
  - SQL Server & other software under Visual Studio subscription (formerly known as MSDN) are included.
- ❗Users (except testers) must be covered under a Visual Studio subscription
- ❗Only for non-production workloads

### Bring your own SQL Server license

- ❗ For customers with Enterprise Agreement
- Use unused on-prem licenses on Azure
- In Azure marketplace search for `BYOL SQL`

### Use SQL Server Developer Edition

- Free product for nonproduction use.
- Has all the same features that Enterprise Edition has
- Can find SQL Server images for Developer Edition on the Azure Marketplace for development & testing.

### Use constrained instance sizes for database workloads

- Many have high requirements for memory, storage, or I/O bandwidth.
  - Often have low requirements for CPU core counts
- Can use VM sizes with lower vCPU count
- Databases like SQL Server and Oracle are licensed per CPU
  - Allows you to reduce licensing cost by up to 75 percent.
