# Azure basics

## Interacting with Azure

- Azure is based on REST API's
- You can use Portal, PowerShell, Azure CLI that wrap REST API's.
- **Azure Cloud Shell**: Browser-accessible shell on portal that can run PowerShell, Azure CLI and even more like `git`/`bash`/`pip`/`maven` etc.
- 💡 Azure CLI can often handle everything that other wrappers can and even more.

## Service-level agreement (SLA)

- A guarantee that Azure gives to customers for different offerings.
- Guarantees Monthly Uptime Percentage
- `Monthly Uptime % = (Maximum Available Minutes – Downtime) / Maximum Available Minutes x 100`

## Regions

- Azure has different regions
- Each Azure Region has one or more  (often 3) *availability zone*s.
  - Each availability zone is made up one or more *data-centers*.
  - Data centers have independent power, cooling and networking.
- Each region includes a *pair* in its country (>500 kms away if it's possible)
  - Pairs enables *system update isolation* where regions are updated in queue[^fn1]
  - Azure region pair is highly prioritized during recovery
  - Services with geo-redundant storage uses paired region automatically.

## Resource Group

- Logical group to manage *resource*s together
- Groups values e.g. analyzing and forecasting resource consumption and spending.
- You can create policies on resource group
- A **resource** is an object in Azure (Azure object)

### Azure Resource Manager (ARM)

- Each object in Azure has ARM files associated with it.
- Can be deployed directly from Visual Studio
- They are JSON text files.
  - `$schema` *(required)* : URL of the JSON schema file describing the version.
  - `contentVersion` *(required)* : Version of the template (e.g. 1.0.0.0)
  - `resources` *(required)*: Resource types that's deployed or updated in the group.
  - `parameters`: Customizable values that are provided when deployment executed.
  - `variables`: JSON fragments in template to simplify language expressions.
  - `outputs`: Values that are returned after deployment.
- 💡 Secure any username, password parameters in JSON files.
- Usually parameters (`azuredeploy.parameters.json`) and the file (`azuredeploy.json`) is separated.
- ❗ Hard to create from stratch.
  - 💡 Have a base and modify later.
    - Create a resource, copy its auto-generated ARM from *Automation blade.*
    - Use **Azure QuickStart templates**
      - Maintained by Microsoft + Community (on github)
      - Provides "Deploy to Azure" button
- You can control how things are deployed using **Azure Policy** on resource group, subscription, or management group level.

## Egress charges

- Moving data to Azure mostly is free.
- From Azure to outside (without ExpressRoute or  Content Delivery Network) you get extra egress charges.
