# Implement workloads and security

## Azure Migration

- Migration Phases
  - **Discover**
    - Inventory of on-prem resources to plan where the migration should start
    - Tools: ***Azure Migrate Service***, ***Database Migration Assistant***
    - Answer to questions such as _What are my applications? How are they made up JAVA or .NET? Data structure, SQL VM or SQL? How will they look like in Azure?
    - You can use Azure partner discovery services such as Cloudamize, CloudSpace…
  - **Migrate**
    - Tools: ***Azure Site Discovery***, ***Azure Database Migration Service***, ***Azure Data Box***
    - Deploy identity, network, storage, and compute infrastructure
      - You move selected workloads to Azure.
  - **Optimize**
    - Fine tune your Azure-based workloads and maximize your ROI (Return on Investment).
    - Tools: ***Azure management and Security*** (e.g. backup, monitoring, security, assessment), ***Azure Cost Management***, third party solutions such as ***Cloudyn***
    - Security + performance improvements
    - 3rd parties help with with backup, monitoring, security assessments, and cost management.
- Arguments for migrating
  - No hardware obsolesce cycle: No need to sell hardware after a while
  - No pre-purchase capacity model, but pay for what you use.
  - Lack of IT agility
  - Desire to focus on core competencies
  - Expense of maintaining a global presence
  - Enable disaster-recovery scenarios: Geographically dispersed locations.

### Azure Migrate Service

- Free tool for primarily IaaS-based assessments.
- Good for lift-and-shift migrations.
- Supports VMware-virtualized Windows and Linux VMs.
- Non-intrusive discovery of on-premises VM's & workloads
- Examines & assets:
  - ***Azure readiness*** (suitability of on-premises machines)
    - Asserts • ready for azure, • ready with conditions, • not ready for Azure, • Azure readiness unknown (when readiness cannot be identified due to data unavailability)
  - ***Sizing suggestions*** for VM's & disks based on history
    - Two settings:
      - As on-premises
      - Performance based
        - Based on utilization history
          - *Storage*: default is Premium disks
          - *Network*: performance required by network adapters
          - *Compute*: CPU & memory requirements
  - ***Cost estimation***: The estimated cost for running the machines & storages in Azure
  - ***High confidence migration***
    - Migration risks and recommended tools: recommends e.g. **Azure Site Recovery**
    - Visualize dependencies of on-premises machines through **dependency maps**
    - Create groups that you will asses and migrate together
- Flow
  1. Create migration project
      - In Azure, create an Azure Migrate project.
  2. Install **Collector**
      - You download .OVA & import in VMware vCenter as VM
      - Read-only VM to log
  3. Configure **Collector**
      - You connect to console of VM or web to initiate the discovery
      - Copy & paste your project id and key from Azure.
      - It reads: config data, virtual processors, memory size, disk, network configuration, performance history (CPU utilization, memory, disk IOPS & throughput, network output to choose right size for VMs)
  4. Select VM's or groups (can customize groups) & create assessment.
      - Customize machines in report to recalculate costs.
  5. You can optionally install **Dependency Agent** to see dependency maps
- Assessment content
  - Target location, Storage type, Reserved Instances, Sizing criterion, Performance history, Comfort factor, VM series, Currency, Discount (%), VM uptime, Azure offer, Azure Hybrid Benefit
    - **Comfort factor**: Buffer that's applied on top of machine utilization data for VMs.
- ❗ Assesses only VMWare (>5.5) environments, for Hyper-V machines use *Azure Site Recovery Deployment Planner*.

### Azure Site Recovery Service <sup>DRaaS: Disaster Recovery as a Service</sup>

- Tool for VM replication and migration from anywhere to Azure
- Lifting and shifting of servers, apps, databases, and data.
  - *Lift and shift*: A strategy for moving an application or operation from one environment to another without redesigning the application.
- Containerization of existing applications and infrastructure.
- Modernization options for apps and databases.
- Can automatically replicate to Azure or from Azure
  - Supports Hyper-V, VMWare, Windows, Linux VM's
- Pre-, post scripting with **Azure Automation**
  - Safeguard complex workloads against outage with
- Use-cases
  - Use Azure as a secondary site for conducting business during outages.
  - Continuous health monitoring remotely from Azure.
- Pricing:
  - First 31 days free then to Azure (25$), to on-prem(15$) per month for single instance
  - Storage always costs
  - Azure Compute Charges for recovered VMs (if fail-over / migration is done)
  - Outbound data transfer (egress charges, when failing back)
- ***Azure Backup vs Azure Site Recovery***
  - You need to have both to have a full business continuity plan.
  - **Azure Backup**: Copy of data to restore business back to a specific period of time
- Flow:
  - Prerequisites:
    - Minimum permissions: Virtual Machine Contributor, Site Recovery Contributor, write to selected storage account.
    - Create storage account to store replicated VM's
    - Create VNet
    - Plan with **Azure Site Recovery Deployment Planner**
      - A command line tool that gives an excel file with on-premises summary, recommendations, VM storage placement, compatible + incompatible VMs, on-premises storage requirement, initial replication batching, cost estimation
  1. Set up **Recovery Services vault**
      - Create a resource -> Management Tools -> Backup and Site Recovery
      - It stores your back-ups and recovery points.
      - Backups are protected with Azure Backup (prevention, alerting)
      - 💡 Create or manage a Recovery Services vault **in the context of the target service.**
      - Central monitoring: Azure VM's + on prem, RBAC
      - ***Azure Recovery Services vs Back-up Vault***
        - You can no longer create Backup vaults, and all existing Backup vaults have been upgraded to Recovery Services vaults.
  2. Set up target environment in Azure
      - Select storage, recovery vault and network
      - LRS or GRS storage is recommended, so the data is resilient if a regional outage occurs, or if the primary region cannot be recovered.
  3. Select a replication goal (**protection goal**)
      - Recovery Services vaults > vault > Recovery > Prepare Infrastructure > Protection goal
      - Select what you want to migrate e.g.
        - **VMware**: Select To Azure > Yes, with VMWare vSphere Hypervisor.
        - **Physical machine**: Select To Azure > Not virtualized/Other.
        - **Hyper-V**: Select To Azure > Yes, with Hyper-V. If Hyper-V VMs are managed by VMM, select Yes.
  4. Set up the source environment
      - Download and import ASR configuration server and process server into vCenter Server
  5. Replicate the VM's that you want to migrate to Azure
      - You can create **replication policy**
        - You set how often recovery points will be created.
        - Recovery Services vault  -> Site Recovery infrastructure > Replication Policies > +Replication Policy.
      - Enable replication directly
        - In the vault, click +Replicate.
        - Select VM's
      - Everything is copied in storage.
        - 💡 **Paging files** have a lot of churn and will generate a lot of replication events.
          - You can optimize via:
            - Split the single virtual disk into two virtual disks. One virtual disk has the operating system, and the other has the paging file.
            - Exclude the paging file disk from replication.
          - **Pagingfile**: a pagefile is a reserved portion of a hard disk that is used as an extension of random access memory (RAM) for data in RAM that hasn't been used recently.
  6. Run **test failover**: it's *no impact migration testing*.
  7. Switch production environment to Azure
      - Create a **recovery plan**
        - Recovery plan describes the way migration will work in the event of a disaster.
        - In recovery plan, you can:
          - Change order of VM starts.
          - Customize fail-over
            - Run scripts via **Azure Automation**
              - **Azure Automation**: Runs runbooks (piece of script of NodeJs, PowerShell, Python), has support for modules.
            - Select order
              - Create groups
                - VM's in same group are shut down and booted in the same time
                - Across groups they're booted & shut down sequentially, without groups at the same time
            - Choose VM size and customize other settings by c licking on *"replicate items"* in *recovery plan*.
          - Set the target IP address.
            - 💡 If you don't provide an address, the failed-over machine uses DHCP.
          - You can use Hybrid Use Benefit (up to 40% cut for existing Windows Server licenses)
      - **Failover** to azure on recovery plan
        - Settings > Replicated items -> Click the machine > Failover.
        - **Failover & Failback**
          - The **failover** operation is the process of switching production to a backup facility (normally your recovery site)
          - Failover isn't automatic but a manual process.
          - ***Unplanned failover***:
            - E.g. natural or IT disaster.
            - Done from latest point with minimal data loss
          - ***Planned failover***
            - You choose the point, zero data loss
            - A **failback** operation is the process of returning production to its original location after a disaster or a scheduled maintenance period.
              - Failback is a planned failover from Azure to on-premises
            - **Flow**: Go to vault -> Click on "planned failover" -> choose data synchronization -> Choose between a full download (quicker) or synchronization of delta changes (lesser downtime)
              - Two ways to synchronize data:
                - **Full download**: A full download is faster but requires the VM to be shutdown which couses more downtime.
                - **Minimize downtime**: More time to synchronize the changes, but the VM is not shut down so less downtime.
      - After failover, ***Commit migration for production***
        - Choose VM's for fully migration, click on "Complete migration" on recovery plan.
- Disaster recovery to Azure for on-premises physical servers
  1. Set up an Azure storage account
  2. Create a vault
  3. Select a protection goal: To Azure > Not virtualized/Other
      - 💡In Azure Backup it's called Backup Goal
  4. Set up the source environment
      - Recovery > Prepare Infrastructure > Source > +Configuration server > Add Server
      - Download the vault registration key
      - Download & install the **Site Recovery Unified Setup** installation file.
  5. Set up the target environment: Prepare infrastructure > Target
  6. Create a replication policy to choose when (how often) to replicate
      - Site Recovery infrastructure > Replication Policies > +Replication Policy.
  7. Enable replication
- ❗ Limitations:
  - 64 bit only.
  - Max disk size: 4TB
  - Max OS size: 2TB but for generation 2 hyper-v it's 200GB

## Web Apps <sup>PaaS</sup>

- PaaS for web applications.
- App Service Plan is the infrastructure app services run on.
  - Defines compute resources.
  - Can be dedicated VM or shared.
  - ❗ You cannot move it to a different region, but you can clone apps.
- Multiple languages and frameworks are supported
  - Good support: ASP. NET, Node.js, Java, PHP and Python
  - Can run any scripts/executables on VM's.
- ***DevOps***
  - CI/CD from Azure DevOps, GitHub, Docker Hub and other git sources.
    - Enable on app's menu blade -> App Development -> Deployment Options
  - Deployment Slots
    - Deployment slot = Another web-app that's linked to a web-app
      - dev <=> staging <=> production
    - Standard => 5, Premium => 20 slots
    - All slots have their own names & urls.
    - Advantages:
      - Validate app changes in staging before swap (preview before swap)
      - No cold start
        - Ensures all instances are warned up with no downtime, no request drop
      - If it fails, you can swap back
    - Swapping settings
      - Many settings are swapped, some are not.
      - You can choose some Application Settings to be sticky (won't swapped)
- ***Network***
  - Access on-premises data using _Hybrid Connections_r_VNet_'s.
    - You can use to access e.g. to on-prem database.
  - App Service Environment
    - Clusters servers
      - All the way from front-end load balancers, workers, databases, everything that composes your infrastructure
      - Runs entire configuration in a VNet.
    - Configure inbound network traffic rules
    - Setup a Web Application Firewall in front of your ASE
- Some application settings:
  - 64-bit: costs more memory, use it carefully
  - Always on => If VM goes down etc, Azure will try to turn VM on every 10-15 ms.
    - If you get little requests, VM is brought up when it's needed
  - ARR affinity => You don't care for states, turn it off, it'll scale better.
- ***Backup***
  - Only Standard or Premium tier.
  - You need a storage in same subscription as the app.
  - You can back-up databases as well if connection string exists in app settings.
    - works for: SQL Database, Azure Database for MySQL, Azure Database for PostgreSQL, MySQL in-app
  - You can automate backup with back-up schedule: How often? When? Retention?
  - You can exclude some files.
- ***Snapshots***
  - For premium or higher, snapshots are taken automatically.
  - Advantages over back-ups:
    - No file copy errors due to file locks.
    - No storage size limitation.
    - No configuration required.
  - 3 months of snapshots are kept, can only restore for the last 30 days.
- You can clone app across regions on premium.
- You can create from application templates (e.g. WordPress, Joomla, Drupal).
- Other features: scale up/out automatically / manually.
- Key Features
  - Deployment Slots
  - ***Security***: SSL certificates
  - ***Load balancing, auto scaling***
- **Azure Mobile App**
  - Native & cross-platform apps with e.g. Xamarin, Cordova, Unity.
  - Can connect to on-premises.
  - Build offline-ready apps with data sync: Syncs when internet is there
  - Some special options:
    - **Azure Easy Table**: Light SQL on portal.
    - **Azure Easy APIs**: Code & build directly in Azure portal for Node.js back-end.

### App Service Security

- ***Infrastructure and platform security***
  - Managed by Azure = You trust Azure
  - Your app service apps are isolated from both the Internet and from the other customers' Azure resources.
  - Communication of secrets (e.g. connection strings) in a resource group does not cross any network boundaries and are always encrypted.
  - All communication between App Service and external resources (e.g. REST) are encrypted.
  - **Microsoft Threat Management**
  - **Azure Security Center** => natively part of Azure + PaaS services
    - Monitors without any deployment
      - Can protect on-prem by installing "**Microsoft Monitoring Agent**"
    - Set monitor policies.
    - See Network Map of all VNet's
    - Helps you configure recommended controls (add firewall, use AAD etc).
    - **Windows Defender Advanced Threat Protection**
      - On all VM's out of the box.
      - Protects from malware, DDoS, man-in-the-middle and more.
      - Man-in-the-middle
        - Reroutes communication between two users through the attackers computers without their knowledge. He can monitor and read the traffic before sending it on the intended recipient.
  - Other protections:
    - SQL injection
    - Session hijacking
      - Active: Takes over clients position
      - Passive: Monitors the traffic for password etc.
    - Cross-site-scripting: via click or script tags malicious script is executed.
- **Application security: You design with security features**
  - AAD integration, certification management, secure communication with different services etc.
  - Access Restriction
    - Authentication & Authorization
      - No code authentication
        - App Service can validate user assertations.
        - Uses JWT tokens
          - ADD => authorization header as bearer token
          - Mobile App Client SDK's
        - Federated identity
          - Identity providers
            - Default: AAD, Microsoft Account, Facebook, Google, Twitter.
            - Can be extended with custom providers.
      - Client certificate authentication
        - Inbound (TLS mutual authentication)
          - Someone who wants to come to your site needs to present a certificate
          - Use API or Resource explorer to set.
        - Outbound (using a client certificate from your app)
          - Application talks to another server and that servers requires app to have certification.
          - Set in App settings with `WEBSITE\_LOAD\_CERTIFICATION` key.
        - Resource explorer = Visualizes API's and manage rules, you can force require inbound certification there you can also set "expect" one.
    - Static/Dynamic IP restriction
      - Configured in web.config file.
      - Static IP restriction: e.g. geo-fencing
      - Dynamic IP restriction: e.g. DDoS protection
        - You set request frequency & concurrency rules.
    - Security scanning
      - Via 3rd party "Tinfoil Security"
      - Paid & billed outside of Azure
      - Managed in Kudo => Extensions
      - Use e.g. before you switch slot from production you can see if you introduce any vulnerability.

## Serverless Computing

- Abstraction of servers, infrastructure, and operating systems.
- Main flow => An event triggers code, code gets data, and gives utput
- Activity based billing => Only pay when you use resources
  - Billing is based just on resources consumed or the actual time your code is running.
- Applications in Azure:
  - _(Compute)_ Azure Functions, _(Storage)_ Azure Storage, _(Database)_ Azure Cosmos Db, _(Security and access control)_ Azure Active Directory, _(Cloud messaging)_ Event Grid, Service Bus, _(Workflow orchestration)_ Logic Apps, _(API Management)_ Azure API Management, Azure Function Proxies: single API surface that calls different functions, _(Analytics)_ Azure Stream Analytics, Event Hubs, _(Intelligence)_ Azure Bot Service, Cognitive Services

### Azure Functions <sup>FaaS: Functions as a Service</sup>

- Built on top of WebJobs SDK.
- No idle capacity charges.
- Execute event-driven code with any programming language.
- Can run locally or in the cloud.
  - **Azure Functions Runtime** is free & open-source.
  - Local development requires bindings.
    - Bindings are a way to provide input and output to the function.
    - A function can have multiple input and output bindings.
    - They're defined in a Json file can have different parameters (queueName, tableName) etc. depending on bound target.
- Automatically scaling.
  - Scale controller monitors the rate of events and uses heuristics to scales out/in.
  - A single function app will only scale to a maximum of 200 instances. A single instance may process more than message/request at a time though.
- Pricing
  - Consumption Plan
    - Scale out automatically.
    - Billing is based on number of executions, execution time, and memory used.
  - App Service Plan
    - Linux only, you pay for the IaaS.
    - Provides cost predictability and warm start.
- By default, a function will timeout after 5 minutes, and a function can run for a maximum of 10 minutes.
- Triggers
  - Can be triggered by Event Hubs, storages, devices from IoT hub, custom sources etc.
  - Or with a scheduled by e.g. webhook, API, data processing.
    - Timer is scheduled with CRON expression
- Bring your own dependencies
  - Supports NuGet, NPM etc., allowing use of preferred libraries.
- Integrated security
  - HTTP-triggered functions can be protected with OAuth providers (AAD, google etc.)
- Code directly in portal or use deployments from GitHub, Visual Studio, etc.
- Best practices
  - Avoid long running functions
  - Use cross function communication
  - Stateless functions
  - Defensive functions: An exception can happen whenever possible
  - For scalability:
    - Share & manage connections
    - Don't mix test and production code in the same function app
    - Use async code but avoid blocking calls
    - Receive messages in batch whenever possible
    - Configure host behavior to better handle concurrency (max outstanding requests, max concurrent requests etc).

### Event Grid <sup>iPaaS: Integration Platform as a Service</sup>

- Fully managed, http-based event routing service for events.
- It connects and integrates all Azure services.
  - You can create events in Events blade of resources (e.g. blob storage)
- Eliminate polling because it's expensive.
  - Long polling: Server waits until the data is available instead of empty directly.
    - it is very expensive in terms of CPU, memory and bandwidth
- Concepts
  - Event Publishers (sources) =>_(through topics)_ Event Grid =>_(through subscriptions)_ Event Handlers
  - **Topic**: Endpoint where the source sends events.
  - **Event Subscription**: what you're interested in receiving
    - Can be filtered
    - Can have expriration date.
- Batching is supported (array of events) and recommended.
- Use case example:
  - Ops automation: New VM created or SQL DB spun up => check whether configurations are compliant, tag, file work items etc.
- You can use custom events
  - Get easy to use UI
  - Native integrated event handlers
  - Uniform consumption of events
- Uses pub/sub model.
  - Can send events to multiple recipients
- Pricing:
  - Pay by number of operations
  - `Published events, + delivery attempts, - monthly free grant (100k) = total operations x $0.60`

### Service Bus<sup>PaaS</sup>

- Managed messaging infrastructure across private & public cloud.
- Publish/Subscribe
  - Temporal decoupling
    - Producers (senders) and consumers (receivers) do not have to be sending and receiving messages at the same time, because messages are stored durably in the queue.
  - Load leveling => producers consumers send & receive messages at different rates.
    - You don't have to pay for a system that is underutilized part of the time.
  - Loose coupling:
    - Resilience because messages are durable until they reach the worker.
  - Load balancing: bring on more workers as the queue increases.
  - Topics and subscriptions: one to many (recievers)
    - Messages can be filtered in topics
  - Other features: Others: auto-forwarding, batching, scheduled delivery (delayed processing), and message deferral
- Implementation
  - Create namespaces where pub/subs will meet
    - Provides a service + security boundary.
    - Can be integrated with **Azure Relay**
      - Integrates on-premises communication easily.
      - Less intrusive than VPN.
      - Traditional one-way, request/response, and peer-to-peer communication
      - Event distribution at internet-scope to enable publish/subscribe scenarios
      - Bi-directional and unbuffered socket communication across network boundaries.
    - The name provides a unique identifier for the object. For example, sbces12345.servicebus.windows.net
  - Create a queue
    - You can select: Message time to live, lock duration, duplicate detection (duplicates won't be accepted), dead lettering (hold messages can't be delivered in another queue), sessions (guarantees FIFO), partitioning.
- Receive events
  - _RecievesAndDelete_
    - Simplest, ok if system can tolerate if a message is missing if it  can't be handled
  - _PeekLock_
    - _CompleteAsync_ => Message is handled & deleted
    - _AbondonAsync_ => Re-queued
- Pricing
  - Premium: Fixed size, predictable performance, up-down scaling,messages up to 1MB
  - Standard: Elastic, auto-scaling, message size up to 256 KB.
- Monitoring
  - Metrics
    - **Request metrics** counts the number of requests.
    - **Message metrics** counts the messages (active, incoming, outgoing etc)
    - **Connection metrics** active/opened/closed messages
    - **Resource usage metrics** in Premium: CPU/memory size usage per namespace.
  - Diagnostics Logs: _ActivityId, EvetName, resourceId, SubscriptionId, EventTimeString, EventProperties, Status, Caller, category (= operationalLogs)_
- Service Buses vs Storage Queues
  - Service buses are built on top of storage queues and are more advanced:
    - Clients can use AMQP (ISO standard for queueing)
    - FIFO is guaranteed with sessions.
    - And other features such as batch send, automatic dead lettering, message auto-forwarding, message groups, duplicate detection, sessions, transactions, duplicate detection, durable publish/subscribe.
  - In storage queues is REST only, FIFO is not guaranteed, lease/lock is on message level (while it's on queue level in service buses).

### Logic Apps

- Cloud & serverless only & scalable service to orchestrate workflows.
  - Can be integrated with on-prem connectors.
- Connects serverless functions and API's.
  - Integrates data with apps.
  - Can be customized.
- You can manage & manipulate data.
- Many built-in triggers
  - You can have polling triggers, push triggers or recurrence (time-based) triggers.
  - Other built-in triggers include: _HTTP, Request, Azure Functions, Batch, and other Azure Logic apps_
  - Can be extended.
  - Can be triggered time-based (recurrence scheduling)
- More than 200 built-in connectors
  - Managed connectors: _Azure Service Bus, SQL Server, Office 365 Outlook, Azure Blob Storage, SFTP, SharePoint Online, Dynamics 365 CRM Online, FTP, Salesforce, Twitter, Azure Event Hubs, Azure Event Grid, .._
  - On-prem connectors: _BizTalk Server, File System, IBM DB2, IBM Informix, MySQL, Oracle DB, PostgreSQL, SharePoint Server, SQL Server, Teradata._
  - For additional cost: _Enterprise Connectors_ (SAP, IBM MQ..), _Integrations account connectors_ (B2B messages via special protocols, XML handling).
  - Each connector has specific actions
    - twitter has => Post a tweet, get followers, get following actions.
- Built logic with
  - Error handlers
  - Conditionals: _for each, condition (if), scope, switch, terminate, until_.
  - Manage variables with expressions (such as div, concat etc)
    - Data operations _(compose, create html/csv, filter array, join, parse json, select)_
    - Date Time _(add to time, convert time zone, current time, get future time, get pas t time, subscract from time)_
    - Variables _(append to array, append to string, decrement, increment, initialize, set)_

## Networking

- To understand difference between **Azure Load Balancer** and **Application Gateway** (also a load balancer) it's good to understand OSI layers:
  - 1: The physical layer, 2: The data-link layer, 3: The network layer, 4: The transport layer (Load Balancer), 5: The session layer, 6: The presentation layer, 7: The application layer (Application Gateway)
- Azure Traffic Manager
  - Used for geo-routing.
  - It provides DNS-based routing to redirect end user traffic to globally distributed end points.

### Azure Load Balancer

- OSI Layer 4 (TCP & UDP) load balancer that distributes inbound traffic to _backend pools_ (resources) according to _rules_ and _health probes_.
  - For application-layer processing, see Application Gateway (e.g. SSL off-load)
  - For DNS load balancer (geo-based) see Traffic Manager
- In actual Azure infrastructure there's always a load balancer.
  - No instance is really created, capacity is always available.
- Front-end <=> Load balancer => _(through load balancing rules and health probs)_ Back-end pools (includes VM's)
- Features:
  - Instant scaling to applications
  - Reliability via health checks through health probes.
  - Secure: You can add NAT
    - Network Address Translation: remapping one IP to another in VM.
    - Lowers attack surface of the VM's that otherwise could be attacked directly.
  - Port forwarding => A frontend IP to a port of a back-end inside VNet.
  - Agnostic & transparent => Endpoint is only answered by VM (VM TCP handshakes)
- Two types of load balancers:
  - **Public load balancer**
    - Internet facing
      - Maps public IP+port of incoming traffic <=>  private IP+port.
    - E.g. TCP port 80 <=> VM's in web tier subnet in a multi-tiered architecture.
    - Can be placed in front of public load balancer to create multi-tier application.
  - **Internal load balancer**
    - Routes traffic between VM's inside private VNet's or VNet's that use VPN access to Azure.
    - Good for:
      - Handling communication within same VNet.
      - Hybrid scenarios: On-prem to VM's in same VNet
      - Multi-tiered applications
        - E.g.: an internal load balancer can receive DB requests that needs to be distributed to back-end SQL servers.
      - Critical (line-of-business) applications.
    - Frontend IP's and VNet's are never directly exposed to internet.
      - Accessed from within Azure or on-prem resources
    - Can be used to create multi-tiered hybrid applications.
- **Load balancing rules**
  - Load balancing rules determine how traffic is distributed to the backend.
  - E.g. you can spread load of incoming web request traffic across multiple webservers.
  - Settings: _Port, protocol, IP version, back-end port, backend pool, health probe, session persistence, floating IP (enable/disable)._
  - Back-end server pool
    - IP addresses of back-end servers.
    - Back-ends span to two VNet's, must be in same VNet.
  - Front-end port is called **Listener** and can have SSL certificate.
  - Frontend & backend pool are connected with rules.
    - Front-end is associated with the back-end VM through **rule definition**.
    - Rules reference to a health probe of target VM.
  - You can set **Multiple Frontends**
    - Load balance on multiple ports, multiple IP addresses or both.
    1. ***Default rule with no-back-end port reuse***
        - Each rule must have a flow with unique IP+port
        - Multiple rules can distribute flows to same DIP on different ports.
          - **DIP** = destination IP of VM
        - Example:

          | **Rule** | **Map frontend** | **To backend pool** |
          | --- | --- | --- |
          | 1 | 💚Frontend1:80 | 💚DIP1:80, 💚DIP2:80 |
          | 2 | 💜Frontend2:80 | 💜DIP1:81, 💜DIP2:81|
  
    2. ***Backend port reuse by using Floating IP***
        - If you want to reuse back-end port across multiple rules.
        - Good for: e.g. clustering for high availability, network virtual appliances, and exposing multiple TLS endpoints without re-encryption.
        - Example:
  
          | **Rule** | **Map frontend** | **To backend pool** |
          | --- | --- | --- |
          | 1 | 💚Frontend1:80 | 💚 DIP1:80, 💚DIP2:80 |
          | 2 | 💜Frontend2:80 | 💜 DIP1:80, 💜DIP2:80 |

        - **Floating IP** rule allows backend ports to be re-used.
          - It must be enabled.
          - It's a part of DSR (Direct Server Return)
            - Flow topology
              - Outbound part of a flow is always correctly rewritten to flow directly back to the origin.
              - At platform level LB operates this way.
            - IP address mapping scheme
              - By changing destination IP, you can enable port re-use on same VM.
  - **Session persistence**
    - Provides stickiness to same VM.
    - A session is a 5-tuple hash of: Source IP, source port, destination IP, destination port *(public port)*, protocol *(optional)*.
    - Settings
      - When adding a rule you can select only client IP or client IP + protocol.
      - Idle timeout: Default: 4 min, same server response via HTTP(S)/TCP sessions but no guarantee that connection is maintained.
  - **Health probe**
    - Allows resilience and scalability.
    - The health probe dynamically adds or removes VMs from the load balancer rotation based on their response to health checks.
    - Types:
      - **HTTP**: HTTP 200 => healthy (timeout : 31 seconds)
      - **TCP**: If connection is accepted / refused
      - **Guest probe**: Runs inside VM, not recommended
    - Standard SKU sends health probe status as metrics through Azure Monitor.
  - **A high availability ports (HA ports)**
    - Is a variant of a load balancing rule for internal load balancers.
    - Single rule to load-balance all TCP and UDP flows that arrive on all ports of an internal load balancer.
    - Non floating: Cannot add more rules.
    - Floating: can have same back-end instance or multiple back-ends.
- **NAT rules**
  - NAT rule ->
    - Must be explicitly attached to a VM (or network interface) to complete the path to the target
  - Load balancing rule
    - VM is selected from the back-end address pool or VMs
  - 💡 You would use NAT rule when you have 1 backend server or you know which backend server to get to and loadbalancing rule when you want to loadbalance to multiple backend servers.
- **Pricing**
  - SKU's: _Standard & Basic_
    - New applications should use _Standard_.
      - More flexible & larger backend pools
      - Outbound rules (public IP, NAT, HTTPS), SLA is available only in _Standard_.
      - When back-end pool probes down
        - _Standard_ allows TCP connections to continue
        - _Basic_ terminates all connections.
    - _Basic_ is free & subset of _Standard_.
      - HA ports are not available.
    - Not mutable, requires re-deploy.
- There are quick start ARM templates. e.g.: 2 VM's internal load balancer.

### Azure Application Gateway <sup>Application Delivery Controller (ADC) as a service</sup>

- Web traffic load balancer at _Layer 7 – Application_ as opposed to Load Balancer that operates at _Layer 4 – TCP and UDP_
- Application gateway can be configured as
  - Internet-facing gateway
  - Internal-only gateway
  - Combination of both.
- Components
  - Frontend IP Configuration <=> Application Gateway (has WAF and is L7 LB) <=> Listener (through rules) => Backend Server Pool
  - **Frontend IP configuration** : Traffic-facing port
  - **Backend server pool**. The list of IP addresses of the backend servers.
    - The IP addresses listed should either belong to the virtual network subnet or should be a public IP/VIP.
    - Every pool has settings like port, protocol, and cookie-based affinity.
  - **Listener** : Front-end configuration of the gateway.
    - has a front-end port, a protocol (HTTP or HTTPS), and the SSL certificate name (optional).
    - Can terminate SSL (SSL ofloading), so that traffic flows unencrypted to the backend servers.
      - Unburdens from encryption & decryption overhead.
      - To implement this, upload certificate & set it on listener.
  - **Rule**
    - Binds the listener and the backend server pool
    - Defines which backend server pool the traffic should be directed to when it hits a listener.
    - Health probes can be HTTP, HTTPS, default => default webpage, you can configure custom URL.
    - Path based rules allows routing based on paths
      - `/video/*` => video backend, `/picture/*` => picture backend
    - Rules are processed in the order they are listed
  - **Web application firewall (WAF)**.
    - Centralizes security management of web applications = Simpler management.
    - Uses rules from OWASP Core Rule Set:
      - Protection against: _SQL Injection (SQLi), Cross Site Scripting (XSS), Local File Inclusion (LFI), Remote File Inclusion (RFI), PHP Code Injection, Java Code Injection, Shellshock, Unix/Windows Shell Injection, Session Fixation, Scripting/Scanner/Bot Detection, Metadata/Error Leakages_
    - You can deselect rules or disable the firewall.
  - Sizing
    - 3 SKU's

      | **Average back-end page response size** | **Small** | **Medium** | **Large** |
      | --- | --- | --- | --- |
      | 6KB | 7.5 Mbps | 13 Mbps | 50 Mbps |
      | 100KB | 35 Mbps | 100 Mbps | 200 Mbps |

    - Instance count: Ensures availability: 💡 Min 2 recommended for production
  - You can configure more than one web site on same instance
    - ❗ Up to 20 web sites.
    - Each website is directed to its own backend pool of servers.
    - Implementation: 2 backend server pools, 2 listeners (type of multi-site), 2 routing rules.
  - Other features:
    - **Redirection**: One port to other port => enables HTTP => HTTPS and more (ex. external site
    - **Session affinity**: Keep a user session on the same server
    - **Other features**: WebSockets & HTTP/2 traffic, rewrite HTTP headers

### Site-to-Site VPN Connections

- A Site-to-Site (S2S) connection is a connection over IPsec/IKE (IKEv1 or IKEv2) VPN tunnel.
  - Azure-provided name resolution
    - No configuration, azure based address
    - Name resolution that uses your own DNS server
- In order to do it with on-prem, following steps are followed:
  1. Create a new custom VNet and gateway subnet
      - Deploy VNet (addresses should be free on-prem)
  2. Create a VPN Gateway
      - Deploy **Gateway Subnet** in VNet
      - Deploy **VPN Gateway**
        - Settings:
          - VPN type
            - **Policy based** = static routing
            - **Route based** = dynamic routing
              - Most VPN's are route based.
          - SKU: Affects number of tunnels and the aggregate throughput benchmark.
          - Virtual Networks: Associate VNet with gateway.
            - Each VNet requires its own VPN gateway.
      - You can see IP address in portal after deployment.
  3. Add a local site (Local network gateway)
      - +Create a resource => Local network gateway
      - Register IP address and address space of on-prem network.
        - So the routing table can be built by Azure.
  4. Configure a VPN device
      - Microsoft lists VPN devices that works well with Azure (e.g. Cisco, Juniper, Ubiquiti, and Barracuda Networks).
      - Download & run configuration script for the VPN device.
  5. Create VPN connection
      - VNet Resource -> Overview -> Connected devices -> VPN Gateway > Connections > +Add
        - Connection type: Select Site-to-site(IPSec)
        - Shared Key: use key from your device or generate key & use in both places
  6. Verify VPN connection
      - In Connection object you should see "Succeeded"

### ExpressRoute

- With ExpressRoute, you can establish connections to Microsoft cloud services, such as Microsoft Azure, Office 365, and CRM Online.
- ExpressRoute connections do not go over the public Internet.
  - More reliable, faster speeds, lower latencies, higher security.
- Excellent for scenarios like periodic data migration, replication for business continuity, disaster recovery, and other high-availability strategies
- Pricing
  - You pay for Circuit bandwidth (50mpbs to 10gpbs etc)
  - If you choose metered not unlimited => Writing to Azure is free, fetching from Azure costs per GB
- Connection options:
  - Connectivity providers can offer one or more connectivity models.
  - Features and capabilities are identical.
  - ***CloudExchange Co-location*** *(Layer 2: Data-link, or Layer 3: Network)*
    - If you're in a facility with a cloud exchange, you can use their ethernet exchange.
  - ***Point-to-point ethernet connection*** *(Layer 2: Data-link, or Layer 3: Network)*
  - ***Any-to-any (IPVPN) Connection*** *(typically Layer 3: Network)*
    - You can integrate your WAN with Microsoft cloud.
      - WAN: Wide area network, geographically distributed private telecommunications network that interconnects multiple LANs.
    - Microsoft cloud can be connected to WAN like any other office branch.
- Implementation
  - Resources => Create ExpressRoute circuit =>
    - Select connectivity provider (Telia etc)
    - Bandwith => You can always increase, recommended to start low
    - Billing model => Unlimited (flat fee), metered (pay only for data transfer outside Microsoft network, egress)
    - Deployment is done => Microsoft is open to connections
    - Then you enable connection on your side & configure via service key provided in Azure
- Monitoring
  - Within Log Analytics you have **NPM: Network Performance Monitor**.
  - Enables you to monitor
    - throughput, latency, packet loss across various VNets
    - All paths in network in a network map, see latencies across the hubs
  - Requires installation of Log Analytics Agent
    - Both on Azure VM's and on-prem in at least one server of each VNet.
  - Can be integrated with **SCOM (System Center Operations Management)**
    - It works with Microsoft Windows Server and Unix-based hosts.
    - The agent watches several sources on that computer, including the Windows Event Log
- Site-to-site and ExpressRoute can co-exist
  - Why?
    - You can configure a Site-to-Site VPN as a secure failover path for ExpressRoute
    - Site-to-Site VPNs to connect to sites that are not part of your network, but that are connected through ExpressRoute
      - Requires two gateways, one type of VPN, other one type of ExpressRoute.
  - ❗ Limitations
    - Transit routing is not supported.
      - You cannot route (via Azure) between your local network connected via Site-to-Site VPN and your local network connected via ExpressRoute.
      - Transing routing is supported when VNets are peered instead.
- ❗ You can have up to 10 virtual networks connections on a standard ExpressRoute circuit, and up to 100 on a premium ExpressRoute circuit.

# Manage role-based access control (RBAC)

- Create a custom role
  - Example:

    ```json
    {
      "Name": "Virtual Machine Operator",
      "Id": "88888888-8888-8888-8888-888888888888",
      "IsCustom": true,
      "Description": "Can monitor and restart virtual machines.",
      "Actions": [
        "Microsoft.Storage/*/read",
        "Microsoft.Network/*/read",
        "Microsoft.Compute/*/read",
        "Microsoft.Compute/virtualMachines/start/action",
        "Microsoft.Compute/virtualMachines/restart/action",
        "Microsoft.Authorization/*/read",
        "Microsoft.Resources/subscriptions/resourceGroups/read",
        "Microsoft.Insights/alertRules/*",
        "Microsoft.Insights/diagnosticSettings/*",
        "Microsoft.Support/*"
      ],
      "NotActions": [],
      "DataActions": [],
      "NotDataActions": [],
      "AssignableScopes": [
        "/subscriptions/{subscriptionId1}",
        "/subscriptions/{subscriptionId2}",
        "/subscriptions/{subscriptionId3}"
      ]
    }
    ```

    - Steps (through either PowerShell or Azure CLI)
      1. Determine the permissions you need
          - Add in `Actions` and `NotActions` for data operations use `DataActions` and `NotDataActions`.
          - You can see all operations through `az provider operation list`.
      2. Create the custom role
          - `az role definition create`
          - You need to have `Microsoft.Authorization/roleDefinitions/write` permissions on all `AssignableScopes` such as *Owner* or *User Access Administrator*
    - Limitations
      - Azure supports up to 2000 role assignments per subscription.
      - When you transfer a subscription to a different tenant, all role assignments are permanently deleted. You must re-create your role assignments in the target tenant.
- **Configure access to Azure resources by assigning roles**
  - Through a resource
    - Modify in *Access control (IAM)* in any Azure object.
    - In *Check Access* tab you can check access level of individual user, group, service principal or managed identity.
    - Add a role assignment
      1. Access control (IAM)  -> Add role assignment
      2. Select **Role** e.g. *Virtual Machine Contributor*.
      3. In the Select list, select a user, group, service principal, or managed identity.
  - For built-in global roles such as *Contributor*:
    - AD -> Users -> Select user -> Directory role -> +Add role
  - Assign roles to licenses: Azure Active Directory > Licenses
  - Assign roles to devices: Azure Active Directory -> Devices
- **Configure management access to Azure**
  - Securing privileged access requires changes to
    - Processes, administrative practices, and knowledge management
    - Technical components such as host defenses, account protections, and identity management
  - Recommended roadmap:
    1. Stage 1: Critical items that we recommend you do right away *(24-48 hours)*
        - General preparation
          - Turn on Azure AD Privileged Identity Management
            - Organizations can give JIT user access to specific Azure AD & resources.
            - Help you protect access to applications and resources across the on-premises environment and into the cloud.
              - This includes creating separate admin accounts for users who need to conduct on-premises administrative tasks, deploying *Privileged Access Workstations* for Active Directory administrators, and creating unique local admin passwords for workstations and servers.
            - Define at least two emergency access accounts
              - E.g. if on-prem AD DS goes down.
              - Highly privileged and are not assigned to specific individuals.
            - Turn on multi-factor authentication and register all other highly-privileged single-user non-federated admin accounts
            - Features:
              - Provide **just-in-time** privileged access to Azure AD and Azure resources
              - Assign **time-bound access** to resources using start and end dates
              - Require **approval** to activate privileged roles
              - Enforce **multi-factor authentication** to activate any role
              - Use **justification** to understand why users activate
              - Get **notifications** when privileged roles are activated
              - Conduct **access reviews** to ensure users still need roles
              - Download **audit history** for internal or external audit
    2. Stage 2: Mitigate the most frequently used attack techniques *(2-4 weeks)*
        - Conduct an inventory of services, owners, and admins
          - Identify the users who have administrative roles and the services where they can manage.
          - Use Azure AD PIM to find out which users in your organization have admin access to Azure AD, including additional roles beyond those listed in Stage 1.
          - Ensure that your admin accounts have working email addresses attached to them and have registered for Azure MFA or use MFA on-premises.
        - Identify Microsoft accounts in administrative roles that need to be switched to work or school accounts
        - Ensure separate user accounts and mail forwarding for global administrator accounts
        - Ensure the passwords of administrative accounts have recently changed
        - Turn on password hash synchronization
        - Require multi-factor authentication (MFA) for users in all privileged roles as well as exposed users
        - Configure Identity Protection *(ML to asses risks)*
          - **Detecting vulnerabilities and risky accounts**
            - Providing custom recommendations to improve overall security posture by highlighting vulnerabilities
            - Calculating sign-in risk levels
            - Calculating user risk levels
          - **Investigating risk events**
            - Sending notifications for risk events
            - Investigating risk events using relevant and contextual information
            - Providing basic workflows to track investigations
            - Providing easy access to remediation actions such as password reset
          - **Risk-based conditional access policies**
            - Policy to mitigate risky sign-ins by blocking sign-ins or requiring multi-factor authentication challenges
            - Policy to block or secure risky user accounts
            - Policy to require users to register for multi-factor authentication
        - Monitor Azure Activity Log
    3. Stage 3: Build visibility and take full control of admin activity *(1-3 months)*
        - Complete an access review of users in administrator roles
        - Establish integrated monitoring
          - The **Azure Security Center** provides integrated security monitoring and policy management across your Azure subscriptions, helps detect threats that may otherwise go unnoticed, and works with a broad ecosystem of security solutions.
        - Inventory your privileged accounts within hosted Virtual Machines
          - Grant only the amount of access to users who need to perform specific jobs
        - Integrate information protection
          - **Microsoft Cloud App Security (MCAS)** scans & classifies based on policies using **Azure Information Protection** classification labels.
            - E.g. confidentiality levels
- Conditional access policies
  - **When this happens** -> **then do this**
  - You also set Users the users performing an access attempt (**Who**).
  - Cloud apps: The targets of an access attempt (**What**).
  - Controls (when this happens)
    - **Grant controls**
      - Support *AND* and *OR* operators.
      - **Compliant device**: Azure AD registered devices, Azure AD joined devices, Hybrid Azure AD joined devices
        - ***Hybrid Azure AD joined devices***: Windows desktops, laptops, and enterprise tablets that are joined to an on-premises Active Directory
      - **Approved client app** through Intune app protection policies
      - Enforce acceptance of **Terms of Use**
      - **Custom controls**: Validation through custom API's.
    - **Session controls**
      - **Use app enforced restrictions**: The device information enables the cloud apps to know whether a connection is initiated from a compliant or domain-joined device.

# Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA)

- Enable MFA for an Azure tenant
  - First you need to install MFA server on Azure (managed).
  - Enable options:
    - **Enabled by conditional access policy**
      - E.g. wen any user is outside my company network, They're required to sign in with multi-factor authentication
      - Cloud only, premium feature of Azure AD
      - Flow:
        1. **Choose verification options**: Azure Active Directory -> Users -> Multi-Factor Authentication -> Service Settings -> Enable verification methods you want: *call to phone, text message to phone, notification through mobile app, verification code from mobile app or hardware token*
        2. **Create conditional access policy**: Azure Active Directory -> Conditional access -> New policy
            - Select users, groups.
            - Select which cloud apps
            - Select conditions
              - E.g. if you have enabled Azure Identity Protection, you can choose to evaluate sign-in risk as part of the policy.
              - E.g.  If you have configured trusted locations or named locations, you can specify to include or exclude those locations from the policy.
            - Under Grant -> Ensure "Grant Access" and "Require multi-factor-authentication" is selected.
    - Enabled by Azure AD Identity Protection
      - Uses the Azure AD Identity Protection risk policy to require two-step verification based only on sign-in risk for all cloud applications
      - Cloud only
      - Flow: Azure AD -> Identity Protection -> (Configure) User risk policy
    - Enabled by changing user state
      - Requires users to perform two-step verification **every time** they sign in
        - Overrides conditional access policies
      - Works with both Azure MFA in the cloud and Azure MFA Server
      - **User states**
        - All users start out *Disabled*. When you enroll users in Azure MFA, their state changes to *Enabled*. When enabled users sign in and complete the registration process, their state changes to *Enforced*.
        - Do not manually change the user state to *Enforced*.
      - You can view states for users, and enable:
        - On Portal: Azure Active Directory > Users and groups > All users
        - Powershell script with iteration of users.
  - MFA settings
    - **Block/unblock users**: Azure Active Directory > MFA > Block/unblock users -> Add -> Type e-mail
    - **Fraud alerts**
      - Allows users to report fraudulent attempts to access their resources by using the mobile app or through their phone.
      - Specific to on-premises MFA server.
      - Azure Active Directory > MFA > Fraud alert > Set *On* for *Allow users to submit fraud alerts*
      - Configuration options:
        - **Block user when fraud is reported**: If a user reports fraud, their account is blocked for 90 days or until an administrator unblocks their account.
        - **Code to report fraud during initial greeting**: When users receive a phone call to perform two-step verification, user presses a code to report its not user itself.
          - It's 0# by default, you can change it, you should then also change voice greeting with your own recording.
      - **View fraud reports**: Azure Active Directory > Sign-ins
    - **One-time bypass**
      - Allows a user to authenticate a single time without performing two-step verification.
      - The bypass is temporary and expires after a specified number of seconds.
      - It's good when e.g. in situations where the mobile app or phone is not receiving a notification or phone call.
      - **Create**: Azure Active Directory > MFA > One-time bypass -> Enter user e-mail + seconds that the session will last
      - **View**: Azure Active Directory > MFA > One-time bypass.
    - **Caching rules**
      - You can set a time period to allow authentication attempts after a user is authenticated by using the caching feature
      - It's not intended for Azure AD but on-premises.
      - Set-up: Azure Active Directory > MFA > Caching rules
    - **Trusted IPs**
      - Bypasses two-step verification for users who sign in from the company intranet. 
      - Premium only feature
      - Options
        - **Managed Azure AD Tenant**: Specific range of IP addresses
        - **Federated**: All Federated Users (only from intranet), Specific range of IP addresses
      - End-user experience outside corpnet: Regardless of whether the Trusted IPs feature is enabled, two-step verification is required
      - Flow:
        - Via conditional access
          1. Enable named locations by using conditional access
              - Azure Active Directory > Conditional access > Named locations -> New location -> Enter name + IP range + mark as trusted location
          2. Enable the Trusted IPs feature by using conditional access
              - Azure Active Directory > Conditional access > Named locations -> Configure MFA trusted IPs
        - Via service settings
          - Azure AD -> Users -> Multi-Factor Authentication -> Service settings
        - Two options while enabling trusted IPs:
          1. For requests from federated users originating from my intranet
              - Ensure AD FS adds intranet claim with a rule.
              - For requests from a specific range of public IPs
    - **Remember Multi-factor Authentication**: Remembers the device.
      - Azure Active Directory > Users and groups > All users -> MFA -> Service settings
