# Azure Storage

- PaaS (Platform as a Service)
- Store files, messages, tables, and other types of information.
  - Subservices: Blob, File, Queue, and Table.
- It’s also used by IaaS virtual machines, and other PaaS cloud services.
- Three main roles:
  - Storage for Virtual Machines
    - **Disks** are persistent block storage for Azure IaaS virtual machines.
      - Azure disks handles creation of Storage account for you.
    - **Files** are fully managed file shares in the cloud.
  - Unstructured Data
    - **Blobs** are highly scaleable, REST based cloud object store.
    - **Data Lake Store** is Hadoop Distributed File System (HDFS) as a service.
    - **Tables** are a key/value, auto-scaling NoSQL store.
    - **Cosmos DB** is a globally distributed database service
  - Structured Data
    - **Azure SQL DB** is fully managed database-as-a-service built on SQL
- A **snapshot** is a read-only version of a storage that's taken at a point in time.
  - Can be read, copied or deleted but not modified.
  - Provide a way to back up a blob as it appears at a moment in time

## Azure Storage Explorer

- Access multiple accounts and subscriptions.
- Can manage Blob, Queue, Table, File, Cosmos DB and Data Lake storage.
  - Obtain shared access signature (SAS) keys.
- Authorization: SAS or Azure account.

## Storage types

### Queue

- More basic than ServiceBus without overhead
- 💡 Good for >80GB

### Blobs

- Blob permissions
  - **Private**: Authentication (RBAC or storage key) to access
  - **Blob**: Anonymous access to blobs
  - **Container**: Anonymous access to blobs + containers
- Blob types
  - **Block blob** is aimed at streaming and storing of objects such as media files and documents. Sequentially accessed.
  - **Page blob** is optimized for random reads and writes. E.g. SQL & VMs uses it.
  - **Append blob** is same as a ***block blob*** except data can only be added to the end of the blob. Blocks elsewhere cannot be deleted nor modified
- Blob storage access tiers
  - **Hot**: More frequently accessed
  - **Cool**: Less frequently accessed
  - **Archive**: Minimum frequency. Only in v2

## Azure Storage Accounts

- Around 99.9% SLA
- Kinds
  - Legacy => **General purpose v1**, **Blob storage**
    - 💡Can easily be migrated to v2
  - **General purpose v2**
    - Lowest price, pay per GB

### General-purpose storage account

- Tables, queues, files, blobs and Azure virtual machine disks under a single account
- Performance tiers:
  - **Standard**: tables, queues, files, blobs, and Azure virtual machine disks
    - Magnetic drives (HDD) and provide the lowest cost per GB
    - Best for apps with bulk storage or where data is accessed infrequently.
  - **Premium**: Supports only Azure virtual machine disks
    - SSD, low latency performance
    - Best for I/O-intensive applications, like databases
  - ❗ Not possible to convert after deployment

### Endpoints

- Default domain name e.g. `http://mystorageaccount.**blob**.core.windows.net`
- Two ways to configure
  - Direct CNAME mapping
    - Create DNS record *(NS record as TXT or MX)* for Azure URL
      - ❗ For subdomains you use A record.
    - Causes minor downtime as the domain is updated.
  - Intermediary mapping with *asverify*
    - No downtime
    - First create CNAME (in 3rd party) e.g. **azverify**.docs.amk.com
      - Put it in Azure and it gets verified
    - Then create CNAME  (in 3rd party) docs.amk.com
    - You can now delete azverify CNAME record.

### Creating accounts

- You can use VNet to restrict the storage to only certain IP address subnets or VNets.
- ❗ Location must match the location of the resource group

## Data Replication

- Replication strategies
  - **LRS – Locally Redundant Storage**
    - Copies: 1 copy in within a single facility in same region
  - **ZRS – Zone Reduntant Storage**
    - Copies: 3 copies in 3 different availability zones in same region
    - 📝 Replicates synchronously
  - **Geo-redundant Storage (GRS)**
    - Copies: In Another data center in a secondary (paired) region
    - 📝 Replicates asynchronously.
    - ❗ Not available in all regions
  - **Read access geo redundant storage (RA-GRS)**
    - Copies: As in GRS
    - Read access to the replicate.
      - Blob service is myaccount.blob.core.windows.net, then your secondary endpoint is myaccount-secondary.blob.core.windows.net.
      - The access keys for your storage account are the same for both the primary and secondary endpoints.
- 💡 You can change your replication strategy later on.
  - From LRS: Free
  - GRS to RA-GRS: incur egress bandwidth charge (one time cost initially)
- ❗ If you create availability sets for your virtual machines, then Azure uses Zone-redundant Storage (ZRS).
- ❗ If you select Premium performance only LRS replication will be available.

## Billing considerations

- Storage costs (per-gigabyte), data access costs, and transaction costs increases as the tier gets cooler.
- In GRS and RA-GRS, geo-replication data transfer incurs a per-gigabyte charge.
- Outbound data transfer costs (outside of Azure region) incur billing for bandwidth usage on a per-gigabyte basis.
- Changing tier from cool to hot costs as  reading cool data, from hot to cool costs as writing data to cool tier.

## Storing & accessing data

### AzCopy

- Command-line utility designed for copying data to/from Microsoft Azure Blob, File, and Table storage

### Azure Import and Export Service

- **Import**: Transfer to Azure Blob storage (***block*** and ***page*** blobs) and Azure Files by shipping disk drives to an Azure data center.
  - **Flow**
    1. The customer prepares the hard drives using Import/Export Client Tool (WAImportExport Tool) that facilitates the process & encrypts the drive with BitLocker.
    2. The customer creates an import job using the Azure Portal / REST API.
    3. The customer ships the hard drives to the data center and enters tracking number in Azure.
    4. Hard drives are shipped back to the customer after the data is imported.
- **Export** Transfer from Azure storage to hard disk & ship to on-promise sites. You can export ***Block***, ***Page*** and ***Append*** blobs from Azure.
  - Requires you to ship empty disks.
  - Costs extra egress charges when data is exported.
  - **Flow**
    1. Customer creates export job with address & blob container path(s).
    2. The drives are encrypted with BitLocker; the keys are available via the Azure portal.
- When?
  - Uploading/downloading is slow or costs much
  - E.g. migrating data to the cloud, content distribution to customers, backup, data recovery
- ❗ Only specific types of disks are supported.
- ❗ Many regions are not available (US only now).

## Security

### Network configuration

- As default it accepts requests from any client, in Settings->Firewalls and virtual networks you can limit networks by choosing **Selected Networks**.
- You can then add network rule in VNet to allow access to service endpoint of the Storage.
  - When planning for disaster recovery during a regional outage, you should create the VNets in the paired region in advance.
- You can also set-up IP rules in Storage Account -> Firewalls and Virtual Networks -> Firewall -> Address range for cloud and hybrid scenarios.
  - ❗ Only allowed for public ip addresses

### Shared access signature

- Shared access policy includes a key (signatuer) to be used in query string to requests to the storage.
- The policy can grant access to everything or can limit the access to specific operations (e.g. only read or writes).

## Monitoring storage

- Capacity metrics
  - Sub-service specific
    - E.g. for blob: *Blob Capacity*, *Blob Container Count*, and *Blob Count*
  - Sent every hour, refreshed daily.
- Transaction metrics
  - Sent every minute from Azure Storage to Azure Monitor.
  - Available at both account and service level.
  - E.g. *transactions*, *egress*, *ingress*, *availability*
- Metrics and logs are stored in the same storage account
- Requires you to enable logging.
- ❗ Not supported for premium storage accounts as they work differently and for Azure virtual machines
