# Virtual Network Connectivity

## Communicate between Azure resources

- ***Through virtual network service endpoints***
  - Endpoints allow you to secure your critical Azure service resources to only your virtual networks.
  - Available for: _Azure Storage, Azure SQL, PostgreSQL, MySQL, Cosmos DB, Key Vault, Service Bus, Event Hubs_
- ***Through a virtual network***
  - Some resources can be deployed directly to a virtual network.
    - E.g. Redis, Azure Kubernetes Service, App Service Environment...

## Communicate with on-premises resources or intersite connectivity

### VPN Gateway Connections

- Gateway to gateway connections.
- Requires shared key that both parts know.
- Azure VPN gateways provide secure tunnel using IPSec/IKE.
- You can see & verify established connections in VNet->Gateway->Connections blade as "Status: Connected"

#### VNet <=> VNet

- Works across regions, subscriptions, deployment models, cloud/on-prem.
- 💡 Use one VNet as gateway and peer other ones on Azure. Gateways on every VNet is costly & slow!
- On Azure the connection does not go over the internet.
- Deploy Gateway on each VNet.
  - Set-up connection in VNet1 gateway to VNet2
  - Set-up connection in VNet2 gateway to VNet1

##### Site-to-site (S2S)

- If one VNet is on-prem it's called **Site-to-site (S2S)**
- On-premises VPN device <=> Azure VPN Gateway
- The local gateway is configured manually
- Problem: All users download VPN client to connect Azure.
  - Easier: Have a hardware device as jumpbox and use it as gateway through secure ip tunneling.
  - Even easier: ExpressRoute.

#### VNet <=> Device (with VPN Gateway)

- Or **Point-to-site virtual private network** (VPN)
- Configure =>
  - IP address space for clients.
  - Configure virtual gateway
  - Create root and client certificates & upload to azure
  - Install VPN client configuration created by Azure
  - Connect to VPN

#### Azure ExpressRoute

- Private connection that does not go over the internet.
- BDP is the only routing way.
- Reliable => Circuits consist of two connection to Microsoft Enterprise Edge.
- Facilitated by a connectivity provider (e.g. Telia, Tele2)

### Virtual Network peering
  
- The virtual networks you connect are across subscriptions and regions.
- All traffic is routed over Azure internal networks, handled by Azure infrastructure.
- Faster & easer to setup than VPN
- No public IP required
- No downtime when creating/configuring peering.
- Regional network peering => In same VNet
- Global network peering => Cross region VNets (in preview)
- Requirements:
  - Public clouds (not Azure national clouds)
  - Resources in one VNet cannot communicate with load balancer in the peered VNet. Load balancer and resources that communicate with it must be in same VNet.
- ❗ Limitations:
  - Not transive.
    - E.g.: VNet1<=>VNet2 and VNet2<=>VNet3 does not mean VNet1<=>VNet3
  - No overlapping address spaces
  - Any address space changing => Destroy peering re-deploy
- Settings:
  - _Allow forwarded traffic_: Allows traffic not originated from within peer VNet to VNet.
  - _Allow gateway transit_: Peer VNet uses your network gateway.
    - Allows you to have single gateway, instead of gateway per VNet (called hub-spoke topology)
    - Examples:
      - Site-to-site VPN <=> On-prem network
      - VNet-to-VNet <=> Another VNet
      - Point-to-site VPN <=> Connect client
  - _Use remote gateways_: Uses peer's virtual gateway.
