# Hybrid Identities

- **Hybrid identity**: Azure identities with on-premises AD connection

## Azure AD Connect

- Installed on a domain controller, handles sync to Azure AD.
- **Configuration**: Register Azure AD account and AD DS account, and do some checkboxes => done.
  - **Device writeback** Devices must be located in the same forest as the users.
- Can set up **Seamless SSO**
  - Works with both [Password Hash Synchronization](#password-hash-synchronization-phs) and [Pass-through authentication](#pass-through-authentication-pta)
  - Automatically sign in user with their Azure ID if they're on domain joined device.
  - Works via JS, trusts Kerberos ticket.
  - Flow
    1. **Prerequisites**: Set up your Azure AD Connect server, Enable modern authentication
    2. **Enable the feature**: Enable Seamless SSO through Azure AD Connect.
    3. Roll out the feature:
       - Add `https://autologon.microsoftazuread-sso.com` by using Group Policy.
       - Because browsers will not send Kerberos tickets to a cloud endpoint, like the Azure AD URL, unless you explicitly add the URL to the browser's Intranet zone.
    4. Test the feature
    5. Roll over keys
       - Periodically roll over these Kerberos decryption keys - at least once every 30 days.
       - Keys can be used to create tickets and are vulnerable.

## Azure AD Health

- Monitors AD FS servers, AD connect, AD domain controllers.
- Synchronization between AD DS and Azure.
- Alert can be set up.

## Azure authentication methods

- â—Hard to change later on
- ðŸ’¡ Microsoft recommendation: [Cloud only](#cloud-only) > [AD Connect cloud accounts](#ad-connect-cloud-accounts) > AD Connect + [PHS (and SSO)](#password-hash-synchronization-phs) > AAD Connect [PTA (+ SSO)](#pass-through-authentication-pta) > AD Connect + [AD FS](#federation-ad-fs)

### Cloud only

- No infrastructure on premises.

### AD Connect cloud accounts

- Just username is synced from on-prem AD DS.
- Requires users manage two passwords.

### Password hash synchronization (PHS)

- Synchronizes hashes of passwords from an on-prem AD to a Azure AD.
- Azure-based authentication security:
  - **Smart lockout**: prevents brute force attacks, and prevents genuine users from being locket out.
  - **Leak credential report**:Microsoft scans web and dark web for leaked accounts & requires password reset if account is leaked.
- Active password write-back or password changes on Azure will not be updated on-prem

### Pass-through authentication (PTA)

- Authentication is on premises.
- You deploy two or more (for availability) authentication agents on-premises.
  - They make persistent connection to Azure (ExpressRoute has circuits for this)
  - Outbounds to HTTPS 443 (no need for perimeter network)
    - Pulls authentication requests
    - Pulls rules
      - When to change password?
      - What hours I can log in?
- Azure AD encrypts with public key, places it on queue, auth agent listens & decrypts with private key, authenticates and returns back the success/fail message.
- Supports ***smart lock-out*** but no ***leak credential report***.
- Requires installation agent on the same server as Azure AD connect.
  - Install on more servers (can be domain controllers) for high availability.

## Federation (AD FS)

- Federation is a collection of domains that have established trust.
- Recommended if something Azure does not support is used, can be smart card, biometrics, third party authentication etc.
- Create Azure VM domain on-prem which is a replica of domain controller in Azure.
  - You can then join machines to this managed domain using traditional domain-join mechanisms.
  - Complex set-up
  - When?
    - Lift & shift workloads: Moving all of your domain controllers to Azure.
- 2 or more (for availability) AD FS servers to accept authentication requests.
- An AD DS instance is registered in Azure.
