# Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA)

## Enable MFA for an Azure tenant

- First you need to install MFA server on Azure (managed).

### Enabling options

#### Enabled by conditional access policy

- E.g. wen any user is outside my company network, They're required to sign in with multi-factor authentication
- Cloud only, premium feature of Azure AD
- Flow:
  1. **Choose verification options**: Azure Active Directory -> Users -> Multi-Factor Authentication -> Service Settings -> Enable verification methods you want: *call to phone, text message to phone, notification through mobile app, verification code from mobile app or hardware token*
  2. **Create conditional access policy**: Azure Active Directory -> Conditional access -> New policy
      - Select users, groups.
      - Select which cloud apps
      - Select conditions
        - E.g. if you have enabled Azure Identity Protection, you can choose to evaluate sign-in risk as part of the policy.
        - E.g.  If you have configured trusted locations or named locations, you can specify to include or exclude those locations from the policy.
      - Under Grant -> Ensure "Grant Access" and "Require multi-factor-authentication" is selected.

#### Enabled by Azure AD Identity Protection

- Uses the Azure AD Identity Protection risk policy to require two-step verification based only on sign-in risk for all cloud applications
- Cloud only
- Flow: Azure AD -> Identity Protection -> (Configure) User risk policy

#### Enabled by changing user state

- Requires users to perform two-step verification **every time** they sign in
  - Overrides conditional access policies
- Works with both Azure MFA in the cloud and Azure MFA Server

#### User states

- All users start out *Disabled*. When you enroll users in Azure MFA, their state changes to *Enabled*. When enabled users sign in and complete the registration process, their state changes to *Enforced*.
- Do not manually change the user state to *Enforced*.
- You can view states for users, and enable:
  - On Portal: Azure Active Directory > Users and groups > All users
  - Powershell script with iteration of users.

### MFA settings

- **Block/unblock users**: Azure Active Directory > MFA > Block/unblock users -> Add -> Type e-mail
- **Fraud alerts**
  - Allows users to report fraudulent attempts to access their resources by using the mobile app or through their phone.
  - Specific to on-premises MFA server.
  - Azure Active Directory > MFA > Fraud alert > Set *On* for *Allow users to submit fraud alerts*
  - Configuration options:
    - **Block user when fraud is reported**: If a user reports fraud, their account is blocked for 90 days or until an administrator unblocks their account.
    - **Code to report fraud during initial greeting**: When users receive a phone call to perform two-step verification, user presses a code to report its not user itself.
      - It's 0# by default, you can change it, you should then also change voice greeting with your own recording.
  - **View fraud reports**: Azure Active Directory > Sign-ins
- **One-time bypass**
  - Allows a user to authenticate a single time without performing two-step verification.
  - The bypass is temporary and expires after a specified number of seconds.
  - It's good when e.g. in situations where the mobile app or phone is not receiving a notification or phone call.
  - **Create**: Azure Active Directory > MFA > One-time bypass -> Enter user e-mail + seconds that the session will last
  - **View**: Azure Active Directory > MFA > One-time bypass.
- **Caching rules**
  - You can set a time period to allow authentication attempts after a user is authenticated by using the caching feature
  - It's not intended for Azure AD but on-premises.
  - Set-up: Azure Active Directory > MFA > Caching rules
- **Trusted IPs**
  - Bypasses two-step verification for users who sign in from the company intranet. 
  - Premium only feature
  - Options
    - **Managed Azure AD Tenant**: Specific range of IP addresses
    - **Federated**: All Federated Users (only from intranet), Specific range of IP addresses
  - End-user experience outside corpnet: Regardless of whether the Trusted IPs feature is enabled, two-step verification is required
  - Flow:
    - Via conditional access
      1. Enable named locations by using conditional access
          - Azure Active Directory > Conditional access > Named locations -> New location -> Enter name + IP range + mark as trusted location
      2. Enable the Trusted IPs feature by using conditional access
          - Azure Active Directory > Conditional access > Named locations -> Configure MFA trusted IPs
    - Via service settings
      - Azure AD -> Users -> Multi-Factor Authentication -> Service settings
    - Two options while enabling trusted IPs:
      1. For requests from federated users originating from my intranet
          - Ensure AD FS adds intranet claim with a rule.
          - For requests from a specific range of public IPs
- **Remember Multi-factor Authentication**: Remembers the device.
  - Azure Active Directory > Users and groups > All users -> MFA -> Service settings
