# Azure Service Fabric

- Build & manage scalable and reliable microservices that on clusters
  - cluster = a shared pool of machines
- Runtime
  - build distributed, scalable, stateless, and stateful microservices running in containers.
- Management
  - Deploy, monitor, upgrade/patch, and delete deployed applications including containerized services
- You can choose to use ASP.NET Core programming models, or can just deploy and manage containers with Service Fabric container orchestrator.
- Applications are resource-balanced across virtual machines to maximize efficiency.
- Uses cases e.g. real-time data analysis, in-memory computation, parallel transactions, and event processing in your applications

## Stateful vs Stateless applications

### Stateless services

- Scale with partitioned *storage*
  - Can have dependencies to caches, storages, queues etc., but they’re external services.
    - As opposed to stateful applications have internal states in them e.g. databases, storages etc.
- Increase reliability with *queues*
- Reduce read latency with *caches*
- Write your own lock managers for *state consistency*

### Stateful services

- Maintain state reliably within the service itself, co-located with the code that's using it.
- Application state lives in the compute tier.
- Low latency reads & writes
- Partitions are first class for scale-out
- Built in lock managers based on primary election
- E.g. *Azure Cloud Service worker roles*
- High availability and consistency of the state
  - through simple APIs that provide transactional guarantees backed by replication
  - available by Service Fabric without external store.
- Applications can have their "hot" state and data managed within them for additional performance gains without sacrificing reliability, consistency, or availability
- They’re deployed into same Service Fabric cluster with their dependencies.
- Each of these services is independent with regard to scale, reliability, and resource usage, greatly improving agility in development and lifecycle management.
- *Simplify application designs*: They remove the need for the additional queues and caches that have traditionally been required to address the availability and latency requirements of purely stateless applications.

## Basic concepts

- **Service type**
  - Service implementation.
  - Defined by class that extends `StatelessService`
  - Has name and a version number
- **Named service instance**
  - An URI using `fabric:/` scheme e.g. `fabric:/MyApp/MyService`
- **Service host**
  - Instances that needs to run inside a host process.
- **Service registration**
  - The service type must be registered with the Service Fabric runtime in a service host
  - Allows Service Fabric to create instances of it to run.

## Prepare development environments on Windows

1. Install the Service Fabric runtime, SDK, and tools.
2. Enable execution of the Windows PowerShell scripts included in the SDK.

   ```powershell
     Set-ExecutionPolicy -ExecutionPolicy Unrestricted -Force -Scope CurrentUser
   ```

## Creating services

### Stateless

#### Create a stateless project

- New project => Service Fabric Application => Name it `HelloWorld`
- .NET Core => StatelessService => Name it `HelloWorldStateless`
- Your solution now contains two projects:
  - `HelloWorld`
    - Application project
    - Contains services and some PowerShell scripts that help you to deploy your application.
  - `HelloWorldStateless`
    - Service project
    - Contains stateless service implementation.

#### Implement stateless entry points

- In service project (`HelloWorldStateless.cs`) you run any business logic.
- Two entry points:
  1. Open-ended entry point
     - You begin executing workloads, including long-running compute workloads.

       ```c#
        protected override async Task RunAsync(CancellationToken cancellationToken)
        {
          // ...
        }
       ```

     - A cancellation token is provided to coordinate when your service instance needs to be closed.
     - Cancellation is requested when:
       - The system moves your service instances for resource balancing.
       - Faults occur in your code.
       - The application or system is upgraded.
       - The underlying hardware experiences an outage.
     - The system will wait for your task to end (by successful completion, cancellation, or fault) before it moves on.
       - It is important to honor the cancellation token, finish any work, and exit `RunAsync()` as quickly as possible when the system requests cancellation.
  2. A communication entry point
     - You can plug in your communication stack of choice, e.g. start receiving requests (e.g. via ASP .NET Core) from users and other services.

     ```c#
      protected override IEnumerable<ServiceInstanceListener> CreateServiceInstanceListeners()
      {
        // ...
      }
     ```

### Stateful

#### Creating a stateful project

- Add -> New Service Fabric Service -> Name it `HelloWorld`
- .NET Core -> Stateful Service and name it `HelloWorldStateful`

#### Reliable Collections vs Reliable State Manager

- The main difference is the availability of a state provider that can store state reliably.
- State provider implementation called **Reliable Collections**.
  - Lets you create replicated data structures through the **Reliable State Manager**.
    - Operations are transactional = consistent everywhere
    - Stores your data to local disk on each replica.
    - Transactions are atomic
      - You may dequeue a work item from a `Reliable Queue`, perform an operation on it, and save the result in a `Reliable Dictionary`, all within a single transaction.
  - A stateful Reliable Service uses this state provider by default.
  - You can store data directly in your service without the need for an external persistent store.

#### Implement stateful entry points

- A stateful service has the same entry points as a stateless service.
  - In a stateful service, the platform performs additional work on your behalf before it executes `RunAsync()`. This work can include ensuring that the Reliable State Manager and Reliable Collections are ready to use.
- Code example:

  ```c#
    protected override async Task RunAsync(CancellationToken cancellationToken)
    {
      var myDictionary = await this.StateManager.GetOrAddAsync<IReliableDictionary<string, long>>("myDictionary");
      while (true)
      {
        cancellationToken.ThrowIfCancellationRequested();
        using (var tx = this.StateManager.CreateTransaction())
        {
          var result = await myDictionary.TryGetValueAsync(tx, "Counter");
          ServiceEventSource.Current.ServiceMessage(this.Context, "Current Counter Value: {0}",result.HasValue ? result.Value.ToString() : "Value does not exist.");
          await myDictionary.AddOrUpdateAsync(tx, "Counter", 0, (key, value) => ++value);
          // If an exception is thrown before calling CommitAsync, the transaction aborts, all changes are discarded, and nothing is saved to the secondary replicas.
          await tx.CommitAsync();
          }
          await Task.Delay(TimeSpan.FromSeconds(1), cancellationToken);
        }
    ```
