# Configure Message-based integration architecture

## Configure to send emails

- Use SendGrid
  - Flexible API, scalable, real-time analytics & sent messages, transactional.
  - C# has SDKs.

## Configure an event and publish model

- **Stipulation**: Requirement that applications will handle high volume and velocity.
  - **Stipulate**: make an agreement or to demand
  - Applications in serial manner is difficult to meet the stipulation
  - Solution event driven architecture.
- An event-driven architecture consists of **event producer**s that generate a stream of events and event **consumers** that listen for the events.
- Decoupling: producers from consumers, consumers from each other.
- Common implementations
  - **Simple event processing**
    - Event immediately triggers an action.
    - E.g. Azure Functions with Azure Service Bus trigger.
  - **Complex event processing**
    - Looks at series of events to look for patterns.
    - E.g. Azure Stream Analytics or Apache Storm.
  - **Event stream processing**
    - Streaming platform as pipeline to ingest event and feed them to processors.
    - Ex. Azure IoT Hub or Apache Kafka.

### Azure Event Grid

- Built-in supports for incoming events from Azure services, supports also custom application & third party events via webhooks/custom topics.
- You can filter & route events to different points, or use multicasting to send events to multiple end-points.
- Concepts:
  - **Event sources** sends **Topics**.
  - **Event handlers** listens to **Topics** via **Event Subscriptions**
- Subscribe to Blob Storage events to send to an endpoint
  - Supported only in Blob Storage or General Purpose v2
  - Using Azure CLI

    ```bash
      az group create --name DemoGroup --location eastus
      az storage account create --name demostor --location eastus --resource-group DemoGroup --sku Standard\_LRS --kind BlobStorage --access-tier Hot
      az eventgrid event-subscription create --resource-id $storageid –name contosostoragesub --endpoint https://contoso.com/api/update
    ```

- Security and authentication
  - Three types:
    - Webhook event delivery
      - `ValidationCode` handshake (programmatic)
        - Application gets validation code & echoes back.
      - `ValidationURL` handshake (manual)
        - Send GET request to validation URL.
    - Event subscriptions
      - Requires `Microsoft.EventGrid/EventSubscriptions/Write` permission on the resource.
    - Custom topic publishing
      - SAS (recommended) or key authentication: include the resource, an expiration time, and a signature

## Configure the Azure Relay service

- Reveals on-prem to cloud for different communications (request/response, P2P, publish/subscribe)
  - Especially bidirectional via webhooks.
- It only uses outbound port from on-prem for extra security.
- Flow
  - Client =>  Azure Relay service => Gateway node *(each has its own relay/input)*
    - It's listening request (bidirectional)?
      - Creates a new relay
    - It's a request to a specific relay
      - Gateway forwards to gateway node that's own the relay.
      - Relay owning gateway sends **rendezvous request** to client.
        - Rendezvous: temporary channel to exchange messages.
- In Node.js
  - `ws` package: WebSocket protocol client library
  - `hyco-ws` package: Extends ws where Azure Relay is built.
  - Use `hycows.Server` instead of ws.Server, mostly contract compatible
- Applications can authenticate to Azure Relay using Shared Access Signature (SAS) authentication
  - You set permissions as authorization rules in a Relay namespace.

## Create & configure a Notification hub

- Azure Notification Hub provides server to client mobile app communication through push notifications.
- From any back-end (cloud or on-prem) to any platform (iOS, Android, Windows..)
- Delivered through **Platform Notification Systems (PNSs)** to Platform specific infrastructures
  - Provides handle to push notifications
  - No common interface, different for IOS, Android, Windows.
- Multi-platform, scaled abstraction of PNSs, no handles, send notifications there and it routes further to users/interest groups.
- cases: location based coupons to segments, breaking news to all, codes for MFA.
- **Flow** : Client app contacts PNS to retrieve push handle, it stores the handle and uses to push notifications.
- SDKS for IOS, Xamarin, C# exists.

## Create & configure an Event Hub

### Event hubs

- Big data streaming platform and event ingestion service.
  - **Event ingestion** = "front door" for an event pipeline
    - Sits between publishers and consumers.
- Seamless integration with data + analytics services inside/outside Azure.
- Key components:
  - **Event Producers** : Can publish using HTTPS, AMQP 1.0 or Apache Kafka.
  - **Partitions** : Views of consumers (state + position + offsets)
  - **Throughput units** : Prepurchased units to control capacity of EventHubs
  - **Event receivers** : Connect via AMQP 1.0.
- Can be integrated **Azure Stream Analytics**
  - Azure Stream Analytics: PaaS for parallel Complex Event Processing (CEP) pipelines for BI.

### Azure IoT Hub

- Central message hub for bidirectional communication between IoT application and the devices it manages.
- Use cases include device to cloud telemetry, file upload from devices, request-reply.
- You can run Azure services (Azure Functions, Azure Stream Analytics, Azure Machine Learning, ..), or your own code on-prem on devices with remote cloud monitoring & management
- **EventHubs vs Azure IoT Hub**
  - Azure IoT Hub leverages Event Hubs for its telemetry flow path
  - Both support the ingestion of data with low latency and high reliability

## Create & configure a Service Bus

- Service Bus extends Storage Queues.
- Communication mechanisms:
  - **Queues** (simple queues)
    - Each queue acts as broker (intermediary) that stores messages until sent.
    - One directional broker: Message is sent to single recipients.
  - **Topics** (publish-and-subscribe)
    - One-directional broker: single topic can have multiple subscriptions.
    - Can use filters
  - **Relays** (connects with direct communication)
    - Bidirectional communications
    - No storage or broker: just passes messages to the destination.
- **Namespaces**
  - Application scoped container for all messaging components.
  - Can have multiple queues & topics.
  - Can have different communication mechanisms
- **Messages**
  - Decouples applications.
  - Enables 1:n relationships with topics & subscriptions
  - Message sessions enables message ordering or deferral.
  - Decouples applications: improves scalability and reliability.
- **Queues**
  - Offers FIFO with ordering + timestamps or more competing consumers.
  - Messages are delivered in pull mode, held in redundant storage.
- Scenarios: connects on-prem with cloud or cloud to cloud.

## Configure with Microsoft Graph

- Unified API for Azure AD, Office 365, Windows 10 *(activities and devices)*, Microsoft Enterprise Mobility *(Microsoft Identity Manager, Microsoft Intune, Microsoft Advanced Threat Analytics, and Azure Advanced Threat Protection)*
- Uses relationships such as `memberOf`
