# Implement code that addresses singleton application instances

- An application that communicates with elements running in the cloud has to be sensitive to the transient faults that can occur in this environment.
  - Faults e.g. momentary loss of network connectivity to components and services, the temporary unavailability of a service, or timeouts that occur when a service is busy.
- These faults are self-correcting and if action is done after delay, it's likely to be successful.
  - E.g. `ConnectionClosed`, `TimeOut`, `RequestCanceled`
- Strategies
  - **Cancel** : Report exception & cancel operation. E.g. invalid credentials.
  - **Retry** : If specific fault reported is unusual or rare, E.g. network packet becoming corrupted.
  - **Retry after delay** : Fault caused by e.g.. busy/connectivity failures. Try after short period of time.
    - For more common transient failures, period between retries should be chosen to spread requests from multiple instances of the application as evenly as possible
      - Reduces chance of being overloaded.
      - Too many service retry => longer to recover
    - If service fails again, wait & make another attempt, if necessary, increase dalys between retry attempts until maximum is reached.
    - Delay can be increased incrementally or exponentially depending on the type of failure & probability that it'll be corrected during this time.
- Many SDK's implement retry policies, where some parameters can be set: maximum number of retries, amount of time between retry, ….
- An application should log the details of faults & failing operations.
- Scaling out can lower frequency of faults caused by being overloaded etc.
  - Partition the database & spread the load across multiple servers.
- In code
  - Try catch for the exception
    - Set delay (`Delay = TimeSpan.FromSeconds(5)`) and wait for the delay (`Task.Delay`)
    - Log the exception
    - `throw` if retry count is maximum
