# Develop database solutions

## Develop solutions that use Cosmos DB storage

- **Create, read, update, and delete data by using appropriate APIs**
  - Use async, use interfaces!
  - **SQL API**: Standard API.
    - `DocumentClient.CreateDocumentAsync`, `DocumentClient.ReadDocumentAsync`, `DocumentClient.ReadDocumentFeedAsync` *(read all documents)*, `DocumentClient.CreateDocumentQuery`, `DocumentClient.ReplaceDocumentAsync`, `DocumentClient.UpsertDocumentAsync`, `DocumentClient.DeleteDocumentAsync`.
  - **Azure Cosmos DB's API** for MongoDB
  - **Gremlin API**: It’s is used to store and operate on graph data. Gremlin API supports modeling Graph data and provides APIs to traverse through the graph data.
  - **Cassandra API**: You can switch from using Apache Cassandra to using Azure Cosmos DB 's Cassandra API, by just changing a connection string.
  - **Table API**: Azure Table storage can migrate to Azure Cosmos DB by using the Table API with no code changes and take advantage of premium capabilities.
- **Implement partitioning schemes**
  - Cosmos DB uses hash-based partitioning to spread logical partitions across physical partitions. The partition key value of an item is hashed by Cosmos DB, and the hashed result determines the physical partition.
  - ❗ Limitations
    - A single logical partition is allowed an upper limit of 10 GB of storage.
    - Partitioned containers are configured with minimum throughput of 400 RU/s. Requests to the same partition key can't exceed the throughput allocated to a partition.
      - It's important to pick a partition key that doesn't result in "hot spots" within your application.
  - Syntatic partition keys
    - It's a best practice to have a partition key with many distinct values, such as hundreds or thousands.
    - Concatenate multiple properties of an item
      - E.g.

        ```json
        {
        "deviceId": "abc-123",
        "date": 2018,
        "partitionKey": "abc-123-2018"
        }
        ```

    - Use a partition key with a random suffix
      - Distribute the workload more evenly is to append a random number at the end of the partition key value.
      - You can perform parallel write operations across partitions.
      - E.g. you might choose a random number between 1 and 400 and concatenate it as a suffix to the date.
        - like 2018-08-09.1, 2018-08-09.2, and so on, through 2018-08-09.400
        - This method results in better parallelism and overall higher throughput
      - The randomizing strategy can greatly improve write throughput, but it's difficult to read a specific item
    - Use a partition key with precalculated suffixes
      - Easier to read then randomizing.
      - E.g. you have ID, you create partitions key with date + hash of ID.
      - The writes are evenly spread across the partition key values, and across the partitions.
      - You can easily read a particular item and date because you can calculate the partition key value for a specific ID.
      - The benefit of this method is that you can avoid creating a single hot partition key.
        - **A hot partition key** is the partition key that takes all the workload.
  - You can provision throughput for a CosmosDb database or container during creation e.g. `OfferThroughput = 100000`
- **Set the appropriate consistency level for operations**
  - Make the fundamental tradeoff between the read consistency vs. availability, latency, and throughput.
  - Strong consistency model (or linearization)
    - Adds a steep price of higher latency (in steady state) and reduced availability (during failures).
    - Easy to program applicatoins
  - Eventual consistency
    - Higher availability and better performance
    - Hard to program applications.
  - Consistensy levels in Cosmos Db (from strongest to weakest)
    - **Strong**, **Bounded staleness**, **Session**, **Consistent prefix**, **Eventual**
      - **Strong**: Always guaranteed to read the latest committed write.
      - **Bounded staleness**
        - Staleness can be configured in two ways:
          - The number of versions (K) of the item
          - The time interval (t) by which the reads might lag behind the writes
          - 💡 Recommended for high consistency
      - **Session**
        - Scoped to client session.
        - honors the *consistent-prefix* (assuming a single “writer” session), *monotonic reads*, *monotonic writes*, *read-your-writes*, and *write-follows-reads* guarantees
          - Monotonic reads: If a process reads the value of a data item x, any successive read operation on x by that process will always return that same value or a more recent value.
          - Monotonic writes: A write operation by a process on a data item X is completed before any successive write operation on X by the same process.
        - 💡 Recommended option for most scenerios.
      - **Consistent prefix**
        - Updates that are returned contain some prefix of all the updates, with no gaps. Consistent prefix guarantees that reads never see out-of-order writes.
      - **Eventual**: There's no ordering guarantee for reads. In the absence of any further writes, the replicas eventually converge.
    - **Consistent prefix**, and **eventual consistency** provide about two times the read throughput when compared with strong and bounded staleness.
    - For a given type of write operation, the write throughput for request units is identical for all consistency levels.
  - You can configure the default consistency level on your Azure Cosmos account at any time

## Develop solutions that use a relational database

## Provision and configure relational databases

- Create single database
  1. Create a resource -> Databses -> SQL Database
      - Type database name, select subscription, resource group
      - Select source: Blank, Sample, Back-up
  2. Server -> Create new
      - Type server name, admin login, password, location
  3. Select pricing tier
      - Standard/Basic/Premium (sets miniumm DTU)
      - Select DTU's & maximum storage
  4. You can query in SQL Database -> Query Editor
- Create managed instance
  - Azure SQL Database Managed Instance is a fully managed SQL Server Database Engine Instance hosted in Azure cloud. This is the best PaaS option for migrating your SQL Server database to the cloud.
    - The managed instance deployment option provides high compatibility with on-premises SQL Server Database Engine.
    - Cross-database query support is one of the main reasons to use managed instance over Azure SQL Database.
      - ❗ Elastic Transactions / The Microsoft Distributed Transaction Coordinator is not supported.
  - **Flow**: Create a resource  -> Managed Isntance -> Azure SQL Managed Instance
    - Set e.g. collation, VNet
  - Features:
    - Availability: Always-on, backup
    - Security: Auditing, certificates, credentials through Azure Key Vault or Shared Access Signature
    - Set cryptographic providers
    - Configuration:
      - Collation
        - Defines a collation of a database or table column, or a collation cast operation when applied to character string expression
        - Sets the alphabetical order based on culter, e.g. `Latin1_General_CS_AS_KS_WS`, or `Traditional_Spanish_ci_ai`
      - SQL Server Agent: Server options, e.g. replication options such as snapshot, transaction-log reader, notifications.
    - Functionalities
      - Bulk insert / openrowset
      - Distributed transactions: ❗ Neither MSDTC (The Microsoft Distributed Transaction Coordinator) nor Elastic Transactions are currently supported in managed instances.
      - Service broker, stored procedures/functions/triggers
    - Behavior changes: Returns through e.g. `ServerProperty('InstanceName')`

## Configure elastic pools for Azure SQL Database

- SQL Database elastic pools
  - Simple, cost-effective solution for managing and scaling multiple databases that have varying and unpredictable usage demands.
  - The databases  are on a single Azure SQL Database server.
  - Share a set number of resources at a set price
- Problem & solution
  - **Problem**:
    - A common application pattern is to provision a single database for each customer.
    - But different customers often have varying and unpredictable usage patterns, and it is difficult to predict the resource requirements of each individual database user.
    - You over-provision or under-provision
  - **Solution**
    - Elastic pools solve this problem by ensuring that databases get the performance resources they need when they need it. They provide a simple resource allocation mechanism within a predictable budget.
- eDTUs are shared between many databases.
  - Costs 1.5x more than DTU's but pool eDTUs can be shared by many databases and fewer total eDTUs are needed.
- **Choose the correct pool size**
  - Determine
    - Maximum resources utilized by all databases in the pool.
      - eDTUs: `MAX(<Total number of DBs X average DTU utilization per DB>)`
    - Maximum storage bytes utilized by all databases in the pool.
      - Sum of storage needed per DB
- **Elastic jobs**
  - Management tasks are simplified by running scripts in elastic jobs.
- **Flow**:
  1. **Create pool**: SQL elastic pool -> +Add -> Create pool on new server or existing SQL server.
  2. In pool -> **Configure pool**
      - Select a service tier, add databases to the pool, and configure the resource limits for the pool and its databases.
        - DTU-based resource limits
          - Max eDTUs per database, Min eDTUs per database, Max storage per database
        - vCore-based resource limits
          - Max vCores per database, Min vCores per database, Max storage per database
- Rescaling
  - When rescaling pool, database connections are briefly dropped
  - The duration to rescale pool can depend on the total amount of storage space used by all databases in the pool

## Elastic transactions

- Allows you to write queries against multiple databases.
- If both SQL databases supportselastic transactions, you can create server communication link.
  - `New-AzureRmSqlServerCommunicationLink`: Create a new communication relationship between two SQL Database servers in Azure SQL Database. The relationship is symmetric which means both servers can initiate transactions with the other server.
- In C#
  - **Multi-database applications**
    - The `TransactionScope` class establishes an ambient transaction.
      - Ambient transaction = transaction that lives in the current thread.
    - All connections opened within the TransactionScope participate in the transaction. If different databases participate, the transaction is automatically elevated to a distributed transaction.
    - Ex:

      ```c#
      using (var scope = new TransactionScope())
      {
          using (var conn1 = new SqlConnection(connStrDb1))
          {
              conn1.Open();
              SqlCommand cmd1 = conn1.CreateCommand();
              cmd1.CommandText = string.Format("insert into T1 values(1)");
              cmd1.ExecuteNonQuery();
          }

          using (var conn2 = new SqlConnection(connStrDb2))
          {
              conn2.Open();
              var cmd2 = conn2.CreateCommand();
              cmd2.CommandText = string.Format("insert into T2 values(2)");
              cmd2.ExecuteNonQuery();
          }

          scope.Complete();
      }
      ```

    - **Sharded database applications**
      - Use `OpenConnectionForKey` method of the elastic database client library to open connections for a scaled out data tier.
      - C#:

        ```c#
        using (var scope = new TransactionScope())
        {
            using (var conn1 = shardmap.OpenConnectionForKey(tenantId1, credentialsStr))
            {
                conn1.Open();
                SqlCommand cmd1 = conn1.CreateCommand();
                cmd1.CommandText = string.Format("insert into T1 values(1)");
                cmd1.ExecuteNonQuery();
            }

            using (var conn2 = shardmap.OpenConnectionForKey(tenantId2, credentialsStr))
            {
                conn2.Open();
                var cmd2 = conn2.CreateCommand();
                cmd2.CommandText = string.Format("insert into T1 values(2)");
                cmd2.ExecuteNonQuery();
            }

            scope.Complete();
        }
        ```

- Monitoring
  - Use Dynamic Management Views (DMVs) in SQL DB.
    - E.g. `sys.dm_tran_active_transactions`, `sys.dm_tran_database_transactions`, `sys.dm_tran_locks`.

## Create, read, update, and delete data tables by using code

- First ensure you can reach the database: Database -> Set server firewall -> Add client IP
- You create/delete table, populate table or update/delete and select da ta with TSQL
- Example using C# + ADO .NET:

  ```c#
  string query = "UPDATE [guitarBrands] SET type = @type, name = @name, image = @image WHERE id = @id";

  using (SqlConnection connection = new SqlConnection(ConfigurationManager.ConnectionStrings["brandsConnection"].ToString()))
  using (SqlCommand command = new SqlCommand(query, connection)
  {
      try
      {
          // open the connection, execute, etc
          List<SqlParameter> p = new List<SqlParameter>();
          p.Add(new SqlParameter("@type", newType.Text));
          p.Add(new SqlParameter("@name", newName.Text));
          p.Add(new SqlParameter("@image", newImage.Text));
          p.Add(new SqlParameter("@id", id));
          connection.Open();

          /* Submit query
          command.ExecuteNonQuery(); // Non query does not return results
          */

          /* Read
          using (SqlDataReader reader = command.ExecuteReader())
          {
              while (reader.Read())
              {
                  Console.WriteLine("{0} , {1} , {2} , {3} , {4}",
                      reader.GetGuid(0),
                      reader.GetString(1),
                      reader.GetInt32(2),
                      (reader.IsDBNull(3)) ? "NULL" : reader.GetString(3),
                      (reader.IsDBNull(4)) ? "NULL" : reader.GetString(4));
              }
          } */
      }
      catch
      {
          // log and handle exception(s)
      }
  }
  ```
