# Hybrid Networking

## Site-to-site connectivity (Site-to-site VPN)

- Between your on-premises site <=> VNet in Azure via IPsec tunnel.
- Resources on local network can communicate with resources on Azure VNet
  - No need for separate connection for each client computer in local network.
- Requires VPN device.
- E.g.:
  - IT Pros and Developer in-office have their own gateway and connect to Azure.
  - Q&A offshore team has its own gateway and connect to Azure

## Point-to-site connectivity (Point-to-site VPN)

- Configured on each client computer that you want to connect to the VNet in Azure.
- No need for VPN device
  - Instead you use VPN client you install on each client computer.
  - Requires manually starting connection from client, can have auto reset.

## Combining site-to-site and point-to-site connectivity

- Q&A offshore team connects via VPN gateway (site-to-site VPN)
- Developers & IT Pros at office connects via VPN gateway (site-to-site VPN)
- Developers working from home connect via direct VPN (point-to-site VPN)

## Combining ExpressRoute and site-to-site connectivity

- Reasons
  - Multiple branch offices, it's costly to purchase peering for every location.
  - Multiple networks within the enterprise
    - Connect one to Azure using Express route for higher-risk traffic.
    - For lower-risk traffic, use site-to-site VPN
  - Use site-to-site VPN as a failover link if ExpressRoute connection fails.

## Virtual network to virtual network connectivity (VNET to VNET)

- Utilizes Azure VPN gateways to connect VNets in Azure over IPSec/IKE tunnels.
- E.g.: you have following topology (topology=nodes connect to other network via links)
  - IT-pros/developers in office has VPN-to-VPN to _Azure East Asia_
  - Offshore QA team has VPN-to-VPN to _Azure West US_
  - You set VNet-to-VNet between _Azure East Asia_ and _Azure West US_
    - Then both team can access _Azure East Asia_ and _Azure West US_

## Connecting across cloud providers

- For failover, backup or migration between providers.
- Amazon Web Services (AWS) =>
  - Create EC2 VM with Openswan (VPN software)
  - Create gateway on the Azure VNet side using static routing.
  - Use gateway IP from Azure to configure Openswan for tunnel connection
