# Storing in cloud

## Durability of data

- A transaction is set of operations.
  - Seek to achieve some or all ACID properties.
    - **Atomic**
      - A transaction is executed only once; all work completes or none does.
      - Why?
        - Operations in a transaction often share common intent or depend on each other.
        - Performing only subset => intent can be missed.
    - **Consistent**
      - A transaction preserves the consistency of data.
        - Performed on consistent state and leads to consistent state.
        - Typically, developers are responsible for maintaining consistency.
    - **Isolated**
      - Concurrent transactions behave as if each were the only transaction running in the system.
      - Some applications reduce isolation level for better throughput
        - High isolation => limits number of concurrent transactions
    - **Durable**
      - A transaction must be recoverable.
      - It must be persisted if e.g. computer crashes.
        - Special logging solves this.
  - In relational database systems (RDBMS) it's a single unit of work.
  - All-or-none => If it fails, DB is rolled back, all modification are erased.

## Caching

- Caching aims to improve performance & scalability of a system.
- It's done by temporarily copying frequently accessed data to a fast storage, close to application.
- Most effective when
  - Same data is repeatedly read.
  - Original data store =>
    - Relatively static
    - Slow compared to cache's speed
    - Subject to significant level of contention
      - Contention in DB systems =>
        - multiple processes or instances competing for access to the same index or data block at the same time
    - It's far away & network latency cause access to be slow.
- Distributed applications typically implement either or both when caching data:
  - **Private cache** : Locally held on computer that's running application.
    - ***In-memory store***: Accessed by single process.
      - Quick & affective, size is typically constrained to host machine.
    - ***Local file system***
      - Slower than in-memory, but faster than retrieving across network.
      - Each application holds its own copy of the data.
    - Problem:
      - Snapshot of the original data at a point of past.
        - Different application instance can hold different versions.
  - **Shared cache** : Common source which multiple processes/machines can access.
    - All instances see same view of data as opposed to in-memory.
    - It's highly scalable
      - Cache services uses cluster of servers and software for distribution.
      - Easy to scale by adding to / removing from a cluster.
    - Disadvantages:
      - Slower to access => Held locally to each application instance.
      - Implementing separate cache service => increases complexity.
- Caching considerations
  - When?
    - The more data you have, the larger number of users that need to access this data => minimum load on the original data store.
    - If original data store is unavailable, cache can be used.
  - How to cache data effectively?
    - Determine the post appropriate data to cache
    - Cache it at the appropriate time.
      - Add data to the cache on demand when it's retrieved first time.
      - Populate in advance
        - _Seeding:_ when the application start.
        - Not good for large cache as it can cause sudden high load.
  - Manage data expiration.
    - Cached data becomes stale after a while.
    - Expire caches so they're removed, and retrieved on next read.
    - Set a default policy, many cache services you can set period for individual objects while storing them programmatically.
- **Redis Cache**
  - Recommended by Azure, replaces Azure Cache (deprecated).
  - NoSQL key-value database.
    - Unique: Allows complex data structure for its keys.
  - SKU's: Basic (single node), Standard (2 nodes + SLA)

## Measuring throughput

- Normalized units
  - Relative performance guarantees by cloud vendors.
  - your application uses 20 units, 40 unit will give you appr. double performance.
- DTUs – Database throughput units (Azure SQL Database)
  - Based on compute, storage and IO.
  - DTUs for single databases, eDTUs for elastic pools.
  - Fixed per pricing plans, e.g.: Basic = 5 DTU, Standard 2 = 50 DTU
- RUs – Request unit processing per second (Azure Cosmos DB)
  - Each operation incurs a request charge, which is expressed in Rus.
    - Single request unit (normalized) => 1 read of 1 KB document.
    - Create, replace, delete consumes more processing = more request units.

## Structure of data

- Polyglot persistence => solutions that uses mix of data store technologies.
- Structured data stores
  - Most vendors use SQL.
  - Have RDMS (relational database management system)
    - Conforms to be ACID.
    - Supports schema-on-write
      - You define data structure, all read+write use same schema.
  - Hard to scale out.
  - g. Azure SQL Database, Azure Database for MySQL, Azure Database for PostgreSQL
- Unstructured / semi-structured data stores
  - Doesn't use tabular schema of rows & columns.
  - Can store as key/value pairs, JSON documents, or as a graph (edges + vertices)
  - Have no relational model.
  - Graph databases => Cosmos DB, Gremlin API
    - Optimized for exploring weighted relationships between entities.
    - Stores edges (entities) and nodes (relationship between nodes).
  - Document databases => Azure Cosmos DB
  - NoSQL => Most systems supports SQL compatible queries, but non-SQL DB's.
  - Column family: HBase in HDInsights
    - Key-value pair, where key is mapped to a value that's a set of column.
  - Massively parallel & distributed solutions for ingesting, storing, and analyzing data
    - SQL Data Warehouse
    - Azure Data Lake
    - Time series data stores => Time Series Insights
      - Optimized for queries over time-based sequences of data, indexed by datetime.
  - Others: Object storage => Blob storage, Shared files => File storage
