# Manage identities

- **Introduction to Azure Active Directory**
  - Characteristics
    - AD is cloud-based and geo-distributed
      - Your tenant is distributed amongst many servers in Azure.
      - Provides high level of availability and scalability.
    - AD is multi-tenant.
      - You're running a shared platform.
      - Each tenant is segmented off on its own.
      - Provides ability to give permissions from one tenant to another for certain accounts.
    - Identity & Access
      - Can be identity/access provider for Microsoft accounts for e.g. Office 365.
      - In-house & third party developed applications can also leverage this service.
    - Integrates with local AD
    - Provides SSO
      - For third party or in-house applications.
  - Global administrator = Root
  - Can be managed by Azure Portal, Powershell/CLI, Microsoft Graph and API
    - Microsoft Graph
      - Microsoft has many APIs and Graph is a way of trying to creating single way of interacting with all APIs.

- **Role Based Access Control**
  - Roles defines actions that role is capable of doing.
  - ðŸ’¡ Roles are assigned to users and users only.
  - â— Pre-built roles only.
    - No custom roles.
    - You can create custom that are application specific and are outside of the direct administration of Azure AD
  - Roles are assigned at tenant level.
    - If you need separation of roles, you can create a new tenant and assign roles and permissions on that account.

- **Custom domains**
  - You initially get `tenantname.onmicrosoft.com`
  - Custom names must be fully qualified: Not a local name but an online namae.
  - Ownership must be verified
    - Microsoft gives text records (TXT or MX)
    - You put text record in DNS to get verified
  - You can verify multiple domains
  - Possible to register subdomains but you register parent domain.
  - In Portal -> AD -> Custom domain names -> Add custom domain

- **Multiple directories**
  - ***Resource independence***
    - Resource in one directory does not have access to resource in other directory
    - No forests, trusts etc.
  - ***Administrative independencies***
    - If you're global admin in one directory doesn't mean you have any access in other directory.
  - Synchronization independence
    - You can synchronize to specific directory and it does not impact other directories.
  - Switch directory in Portal -> AD -> Overview -> Switch directory

- **Azure AD Users**
  - ***Types of users***
    - Cloud or Synced (from local AD through AD Connect)
    - Member or Guest
      - Members are created within AD directory
      - Guests are invited by administrator or one of other users of Azure AD.
  - ***Common settings***
    - Usual attributes (e.g. department, phone number, contact, email)
    - Setup password policy, expiration policy, flag users needing to reset their password
    - **Usage Location**: Location is required if you want to assign license to a user within AD.
      - Set usage location: *AD -> Users -> Select User -> Profile -> Settings*
      - You can then assign license in *AD -> Users -> Select User -> Licenses*
    - **User Principal name**: Combination of an user name + domain.
  - ***Create new user***
    - AD -> User -> new User
    - User name
      - Required, e.g. test@contoso.onmicrosoft.com
    - Properties: Optional information e.g. first name, last name, job title.
  - ***External access***
    - You can add a user as an *External User*
    - Good for B2B scenerios
      - AD is not required on other business side.
  - **Self-service password reset**
    - Scenarios
      - Allows users to change their passwords
      - If you cannot log in somehow
      - Helpws with account lockout
    - Authentication methods
      - Types:
        - Text message/Phoen call
        - Secondary email
        - Security questions
      - Administrator requires one or more.
    - Manage in: Portal -> AD -> Password Reset
      - ***Enable***
        - You can enable for all users or selected users.
        - ðŸ’¡ Good to first enable for a pilot group to see how it works.
      - ***Registration***
        - Require users to register when signin in
          - Prompts user to fill information for authentication methods.
        - After how long user will be prompted to confirm authentication method information
      - ***Notifications***
        - Notify users on password resets
        - Notify all admins when other admins reset their password
  - **User settings**
    - Enterprise applications
      - *Users can consent to apps accessing company data on their behalf (yes/no)*
        - Yes; users can consent to allow third party and multi-tenant applications to consent on their own behalf.
      - Users can add galery apps to theri Access Panel
        - No; as an administrator you have to manually integrate the applciations through Access Panel
    - App registrations
      - *Users can register applications (yes/no)*
        - Yes; non administrations can register applications to be used within the directory, no; only administrators can do it

- **Azure AD Groups**
  - Types of groups
    - ***Assigned or Dynamic***
      - **Assigned**: You assign users to groups manually
      - **Dynamic**: You select various attributes to make users member of a group
        - Dynamic query e.g. `deparment Equals marketing`
    - ***Security or Office 365***
      - **Security groups** are for assigning permissions.
  - ***Owners and members***
    - **Owners**: Can add/remove users from the group.
    - **Members**: cannot manage the group, normal permissions
  - **Expiration of groups**: Groups can automatically expire.
  - You manage in AD -> Groups
    - You can assign licenses to a group where each member will get a license.
  - Good for performing bulk user updates
  - **Self-service group management**
    - ***Owners manage groups*** instead of administrator that manage the group for the owners.
    - Users can request to join in group with providing some business justification.
    - Audits & alerts
      - Everything is logged
      - You can e.g. trigger alert on frequent activities in a group
  - **Company Branding**
    - In portal: AD -> Users and groups -> Company branding
    - Allows you to customize the pages with e.g. banner, sign-in page text, user name hint

- **Azure AD Devices**
  - Enables more management
  - Device settings show overview in Portal
    - Intune + MDM offer much more control
  - You can add work or school account to integrate
  - Registration types:
    - **Register Device**
      - Basic registration
      - Bring your own device (BYOD) scenario
      - For mobile devices and Windows 10
        - Enable/disable and additional management (MDM) for mobile devices like intune.
      - Enterprise State Roaming
        - Users synchronizes their user settings and application settings data to the cloud.
        - Supported in Windows 10
        - Enchanced security, management and monitoring.
        - Separation of corporate and consumer data in cloud.
    - **Join Device**
      - Corparate owned assets that you want to manage
      - E.g. Windows 7 or Windows 10
      - You get some benefits e.g. single sign on.
    - **Hybrid Join**
      - You can enable automatic registration for your AD joined computers
      - Join device in both local AD and Azure AD
      - Grant device user access to apps that need traditional local AD (=on-prem AD) authentication.
      - You get service principal for the device
      - Actual management is done through Group Policy or System Center Configuration Manager.
        - They're tied in to Azure AD but not part of core AD.
      - Relies on AD Connect for synchronization.
        - If they're already joined to local AD, they're also registered in Azure AD automatically.
      - Configuration:
        - Ensure access to external Azure AD URLs.
        - Configure SCP (service connection point) internally.
        - Configure ADFS if required
  - Manage in Portal -> AD -> Devices
    - *Users may join devices to Azure AD*
    - *Additional administrators on Azure AD joined devices*
      - Default is none, you can select users
    - *Users may register their devices with Azure AD*
    - *Require Multi-Factor Auth to join devices*
    - *Maximum number ofdevices per device*
    - *Users may sync settings and enterprise app data*
      - All, selected, None
    - For more you need PowerShell.

  - **Azure AD Device Settings/Policies**
    - ***Control permissions***: Who's allowed to access join devices?
    - ***Control sync*** (enabled or disabled)
    - ***Device management through Intune or other MDM***
    - ***Conditional access***: Whether or not device has access to resources within your organization

- **Azure AD applications**
  - Azure AD IDaaS (Identity Directory as a Service)
  - Application types
    - Third party or internal
    - Pre-integrated or proxies
  - Automated user provisioning through SCIM 2.0
    - Use provisioning enables synchronization of user account.
    - SCIM
      - System for cross domain identity management.
      - Defined by IETF
      - Control users, groups and their relations
    - Available on select SaaS apps
  - You can assign access to applications in AD -> Applications -> Select application -> Users and groups

- **Conditonal Access**
  - Can be applied on users, locations, devices, applications.
  - Policies allow you to have
    - One application with multiple rules
    - One rule with multiple applications
  - â— Only available in Azure AD Premium
  - Condition (if something) -> Control (do something)
    - Conditions
      - Users and groups: Groups, User Id, Locations (IP)
      - Cloud apps
      - Device platform and state: Domain Joined, Compliant, Lost or Stolen
      - Locations (IP)
      - Client apps
    - Control: Allow, Deny, MFA
      - Multi-factor authentication
      - Compliant device
      - Approved client app
      - Terms of use
      - Custom and session controls
  - Manage in AD - Conditional Access
  - Exampel policy: Marketing app from US only
    - Assigments
      - *Users and groups*: All users
      - *Cloud apps*: Marketing app (registered in Azure AD)
      - *Conditions*
        - *Locations*: Include any location but exclude *Contoso location*
          - *Contoso locations* is a ***named location*** (AD -> Conditional Access -> Named locations) for US locations.
        - *Client apps*: Apply policy with access from Browser but not from mobile apps and desktop clients.
    - Access controls: Block access

- **Access reviews**
  - Access review is created for an identified reviewer.
    - Duration can be set
    - Usually created by administrators.
    - Reviewers can approve or deny.
  - Access review can be a member of programs.
    - A program groups reviews together.
  - Managed in Access Reviews (separate view, not included in AD)

- **Administrative units**
  - Container of resources
  - Used for
    - Delegating administrative permissions over subsets of users
    - Applying policies to a subset of users
  - Useful in organizations with independent (autonomous) divisions
  - An administrative unit is a directory object that can be created and populated with resources/users.
  - AD Premium feature
  - E.g. a central administrator can
    - Create an administrative unit for a particular school (Business school)
    - Populate it with only the Business school users
    - Central administrator can add the Business school IT staff to a scoped role
      - Grants the IT staff of Business school administrative permissions only over the Business school administrative unit

- **Identity Protection**
  - Detection
    - Vulnerabilities
      - E.g. MFA not configured, Unmanaged cloud apps, priviliged identity management (only grant identity to user for a set period of time).
    - Risk events (e.g. user signin in from unknown detection)
      - E.g. leaked credentials on internet, anonymous IP addresses (VPNs etc.), suspicious IP addresses, impossible travel (superman event, user logs in from NY and after 5 minutes logs in from Hong Kong), Unknown locations, Infected devices.
  - Investigations
    - Recieve notifications
    - Workflows *(when, who, what happened)*
    - Analysis: How can you apply policies to prevent future events?
  - Policies
    - *User risk policy*: E.g. if user risk event is high, allow access but require password change
    - *Sign-in risk*: E.g. if sign-in risk is medium, allow access but require MFA.

- **Auditing and Monitoring Azure AD**
  - AD -> Activity
    - Sign-in: See, filter, search log-on statuses
    - Audit logs: See, filter, search activity logs for Azure AD
  - AD -> Users and groups
    - You can see user sign-in risks
  - AD -> Azure AD Connect
    - Install Azure AD Connect health from here
    - Shows how health your Azure AD Connecti s

## Hybrid Identities

- Hybrid (common) identity = Cloud + On Premises identity
- Connection is done through Azure AD connect

- **Four pillars**
  - ***Unified Development and DevOps***: A common approach to building applications, and full flexibility to deploy in the cloud or on-premises
  - ***Integrated management and security***: Built-in management and security solutions across full operational lifecycle from cloud to on-premises
  - ***Common Identity***: Enable end-user productivity with single sign on to cloud and on premises applications while protecting corporate data
    - ***Single identity***: Create and manage a single identity for each user across your hybrid enterprise, keeping users, groups and devices in sync
    - ***Single Sign-on***: Provide single sign-on access to your application including thousands of pre-integrated SaaS apps
    - ***Conditional Access***: Protect identities by enforcing risk-based conditional access policies and multi-factor authentication for both on-premises and cloud applications
    - ***Remote Access***: Provide secure remote access to on-premises web applications through Azure AD **Application Proxy**
    - ***Self Service***: Self service password reset and application access requests for directories in the datacenter an the cloud
    - ***High Availability***
    - ***Collaboration***: Enable vendors, contractors and partners to get risk-free access to in-house resources
    - ***Consistency***: Truly consistent capabilities
  - ***Consistent Data Platform***: Seamlessly distribute dat between cloud and on-premises, and enrich with analysis and deep learning

- **Azure AD Connect**
  - Integrate your on-premises AD or LDAP directory to the cloud
  - Establish a single identity for your us ers to access on-premises and cloud-based resources
  - Connect your users to thousands of SaaS applications published through Azure
  - ***Preparing for Azure AD Connect***
    - Create a new user in Azure AD as Global Administrator
    - Download Azure AD Connect and install it.
      - You need > Windows Server 2008
  - **Install and configure Azure AD Connect**
    - Installation settings:
      - ***Initially***
        - Custom or Express installation
        - Installation location
        - Create an express SQL or use an existing SQL instance
        - Provide a service account or create a new one
          - Service account for SQL server
        - Custom sync groups
          - Fill: Administrators group, operators group, browser group, password reset groups
          - AD Connect groups not domain groups!
      - ***Then***
        - ***How users will sign-in***
          - One of them: *Password synchronization*, *Pass-through authentication*, *Federation with AD FS*
          - *Enable sign on* -> Yes, No
        - ***Forest and Azure credentials***
          - *Global administration username password*
          - *Select directory type (AD or LDAP)*
            - Then type *Forest name*
          - *Create new AD account* or *use existing AD account*
          - Type *domain username and password*
            - ðŸ’¡ Recommended to enter Enterprise Admin credentials
        - ***Select UPN for sign-in***
          - E.g. `azure-contoso.com`
          - *Select user name*: e.g. userPrincipalName, treeName, unicodePwd
      - ***Then***
        - ***Choose what domains and OUs get synchronized to the cloud***
          - *Sync all domains* and OUs or *sync selected domains and OUs*
        - ***How to uniquely identify users***
          - Identification:
            1. *Users are represented only once across all directories*.
            2. *User identities exist across multiple directories*.
                - Match using: mail attribute, specific attribute, etc.
          - Source anchor (ID)
            1. *Let Azure manage the source anchor for me*
            2. *Specfic attribute*: objectGUID, pager, objectSid etc.
        - ***Filter users and devices by group***
          1. *Synchronize all users and devices*
          2. *Synchronize selected*
        - ***Optional features***
          - *Exchange hybrid deployment, exchange mail public folders, azure AD app and attribute filtering, password synchronization, password writeback, group writeback, device writeback, directory extension attribute sync.*
        - ***Enable single sign on***
          - â— Requires domain administrator account
        - ***Choose staging mode or install it***
          - **Staging mode**: Synchronization won't synchronize any data to Azure AD
      - ***Post installation***
        - Install AzureAD powershell module
        - ðŸ’¡ Then enable Azure AD recycle bin
  - Metaverse
    - What'll be synced in the next synchronization
      - Connectors to and from on-premises AD
      - Connectors to and from Azure AD
    - Controls what attributes from what objects from what location are available for synchronization
  - Manage in Azure AD Connect -> Synchronization Service
  - Adjust to business changes after Azure AD Connect is installed.
  - Change the service accounts
  - Add the **Managers** OU to be included in the synchronization

- ***Planning***
  - **Sign On**
    - **Authentication and Authorization**
      - *How do users typically login to their on-premises environment?*
      - *How will users sign-on to the cloud?*
      - *Will you be allowing workers from partner networks access to cl oud and on-premises resources?*
    - **Multi Factor Authentication**
      - *Do you currently implement multi-factor authentication?*
      - *What are the key scenarios that you want to enable MFA for?*
      - *Will you use MFA to secure Microsoft Apps?*
      - *Will you use MFA to secure remote access to on-premises apps?*
    - **Delegation and Administration**
      - *Does your company have more than one user with elevated privilege to manage your identity system?*
      - *Does your company need to delegate access to users to manage specific resources?*
      - *Does each delegated user need the same access?*
  - **Synchronization**
    - **Directory synchronization**
      - *Do you have a disaster recovery plan for the synchronization server?*
      - *Where will the synchronization server be located?*
        - E.g. if it's behind a firewall, you'll need to open up some ports
      - *Do you have any other directory on-premises like LDAP or an HR database?*
      - *Does your company use Microsoft Exchange?*
    - **Multi Forest synchronization**
      - *Are the UPNs unique in your organization?*
        - More than one forest -> You can call people samething as other people -> You won't be able to do that in single Azure AD as they need unique UPNs.
      - *Will the Azure AD Connect server be able to get to each forest?*
      - *Do you have an account with the correct permissions for all forests you want to synchronize with?*
    - **Password synchronization**
      - *Do you have restrictions on storing passwords in the cloud?*
      - *Will your employees be able to reset their own passwords?*
      - *What account lockout policy does your company require?*
  - **Applications**
    - **Applications**
      - *Will users be accessing on-premises applications? In the cloud? Or both?*
      - *Are there plans to develop new applications that will use cloud authentications?*
        - If so, then make sure that authentication can use OAuth, certificates e.t.c.
      - *Will cloud users be accessing applications on-premises?*
      - *Will on-premises urers be accessing applications in the cloud?*
    - **Access Control**
      - *Does your acompany need to limit access to resources according to some conditions?*
      - *Does your company have any application that needs custom control access to some resources?*
      - *Does your company need to integrate access control capabilities between on-premises and cloud resources?*
      - *Does each user need the same access level?*
  - **Domain Structure**
    - **Domain Name**
      - *What name will your organization use for your domain in the cloud?*
      - *Does your organization have a custom domain name?*
      - *Is your domain public and easily verifiable via DNS?*
    - **Directory Structure**
      - *How many AD forests do you have?*
      - *How many Azure AD directories?*
      - *Will you filter what user accounts are synchronized with the Azure AD?*
      - *Do you have multiple Azure AD Connect servers planned?*
      - *Do you have different directory that users authenticate against?*
    - **Federation**
      - *Will you use the Azure Federation or on-premises AD FS?*
        - An option is moving on-premises AD FS to Azure Federation.
      - *More federation services for identities are provided now through Azure*
      - *Does your organization use smart cards for Multi Factor Authentication*

- **Forest to Azure AD Topology**
  - â— Restrictions
    - One to one relation between Azure AD and AD Connect
      - Multiple AD Connect can not connect to Single azure AD
      - Azure AD Connect cannot connect to multiple Azure AD directories
    - The same user account cannot sync to multiple Azure AD directories
    - Users in one Azure AD cannot appear as contacts in another Azure AD directory
  - **Single Forest to Single Azure AD**
    - *Single Forest -> Single AD Connect -> One Multiple AD*
    - Most common topology
    - ðŸ’¡ Recommended by Microsoft
    - Expected topology when using Azure AD Connect Express installation
    - Supports multiple domains
  - **Single Forest to Multiple Azure AD**
    - *Single Forest -> Multiple AD Connects -> One Multiple AD*
    - Useful when e.g. some users passwords cannot be written back to the cloud but another departmant caa do it.
    - â— Azure AD Connect sync servers must be configured for mutually exclusive filtering.
    - â— Users in one Azure AD will only be able to see users from their own Azure AD instance.
    - â— A DNS domain can only be registered in a single Azure AD directory.
    - â— Some write-back features not supported with this topology
      - No group / device writeback
  - **Multiple Forest to Single Azure AD**
    - *Multiple Forest -> One AD Connect -> One Azure AD*
    - â— Users must have only one identity across all forests
    - The user authenticates to the forest in which their identity is located.
    - All forests are accessible by Azure AD Connect
    - â— Users have only one mailbox
  - **Multiple Forest to Multiple Azure AD**
    - *Multiple Forest -> Multiple AD Connects -> Multiple Azure ADs*
    - Useful especially if you need isolation for different forests.
    - For each instance of Azure AD, you'll need an installation of Azure AD Connect
    - Users in one Azure AD will only be able to see users from their AAD instance.

- ***Add Azure AD Domain Name & UPN Suffix***
  - ***Add Azure AD Domain Name***
    - Create directory where organiation name is `contoso.local`.
    - Add domain name `azure-contoso.com` and verify through TXT DNS entry.
  - ***Add UPN Suffix***
    - On-prem resources has `name@contoso.local` but you'll need `name@azure-contoso.com` to allow e.g. SSO.
    - Flow:
      1. Add `azure-contoso.com` as an alternative UPN Suffix through Active Directory Domains and Trusts
      2. Add `azure-contoso.com` to all user accounts as the preferred UPN suffix.

- **Single Sign On**
  - **Password synchronization**
    - A copy of password and usernames is synchronized to the cloud.
  - **Pass through authentication**
    - You don't store passwords in cloud
    - User is authenticated using pass through authentication agent that connects with on-premises AD
    - Works seamlessly with Azure Multi-Factor authentication
  - **Seamless SSO**
    - Works with Azure AD Join or the desktop is previously joined to your AD domain
    - Requires Azure service endpoints to be added to the client browser's Intranet zone.
      - This way the browser can send the kerberos ticket to the website.
    - Flow:
      1. Client from a joined device tries to access to a resource in cloud.
      2. Local client goes to AD DC and gets an access token.
      3. Client forwards access token to Azure AD.
          - If MFA is enabled, it'll prompt user.

- **Making cloud apps available**
  - Azure AD -> Enterprise Applications
  - 4 Categories:
    1. Gallery applications
    2. Applications you're developing, integrated with Azure AD
    3. On-premises applications with Azure AD Application Proxy
        - **Azure AD Application Proxy**
          - Allows Azure to reach on-premises resources.
          - Consisten access to private resources without a VPN.
          - Install App Proxy & Connector on-premises
            - â— Cannot be installed on a server with the Pass Through Authentication connector
            - â— You need to configure a CNAME on DNS for the particular domain work for it to work.
          - Set-up on Azure:
            - Add applications
            - Assign to users
            - Configure SSO
            - Provision just like any SaaS app
          - Flow for Azure user reaching on-premises resource:
            1. Azure AD gives a token to user
            2. User sends that token to Azure App Proxy
            3. Proxy takes UPN and SPN and gives it to connector
            4. Connector goes to on-prem AD and gets Kerberos ticket.
            5. It forwards it to actual on-prem application, it verifies the ticket and ticket is assigned to the cloud user.
    4. Non-gallery applications
  - Manage permission: Azure AD -> Enterprise Applications -> In application -> Users and groups
  - Configure SSO:
    1. Configure SSO for the new application
        - Manage permission: Azure AD -> Enterprise Applications -> In application -> Single sign-on
        - Sign-on types:
          - Password-based Sign-on
          - Linked Sign-on
          - SAML
            - Provides step by step guide for fedaration between application and Azure AD manually
    2. Click on the new application new in the Azure AD MyApps access panel
        - Access panel is reached at `myapps.microsoft.com`
        - It promts you to insall a browser extension
    3. Install Access Panel Extension
    4. Log into application so that password is stored for SSO