# Roles

## Assign Role-based Access Control

- Delegated resource administration
- Roles organize related resource permissions together
  - Depends on resource type
    - E.g. different for VM and storage.
- **Scope**
  - Roles are applied to a scope.
  - They're inherited in following order:
    - Management groups
    - Subscription
    - Resource groups
    - Individual resources
- Role can be assigned to:
  - Users
  - Groups
  - Service principal
    - Application
    - System Assigned Managed Identity: App Service, Function App, Virtual Machine, Virtual Machine Scale Set
    - User Assigned Managed Identity
- **Built-in roles**:
  - 60+
  - Examples:
    - ***Owner***: Manage resources and resource access
    - ***Contributor***: Manage resources but not resource access.
    - ***Reader***: Read-only access
    - ***Storage Blob Data Reader***: Specific to storage accounts
    - ***SQL DB Contributor***: Manage, but not access, SQL databases
    - ***VM Contributor***: Manage, but not access, virtual machines.
- **Custom roles**
  - ❗ Built using only PowerShell / CLI or REST API.
    - `New-AzureRmRoleDefinitation -Role $customRole`
  - Shows in same drop-down lists with built-in roles
  - JSON file looks like this:

    ```json
      {
        "Name": "Network Resource Viewer",
        "IsCustom": true,
        "Description": "Allows reading Azure network resources.",
        "Actions": [ "Microsoft.Network/*/read" ],
        "NotActions": [ ],
        "AssignableScopes": [ "/subscriptions/048.." ]
      }
      ```

## Classic Administrator Roles

- The account that is used to sign up for Azure is automatically set as both the *Account Administrator* and *Service Administrator*.
  - Roles are properties that can be changed in Subcription blade
- 💡 Azure recommends using RBAC roles
- **Account Administrator** (1 per Azure account)
  - Conceptually, the billing owner of the subscription.
  - The Account Administrator has no access to the Azure portal.
- **Service Administrator** (1 per Azure subscription)
  - By default, for a new subscription, the Account Administrator is also the Service Administrator.
  - The Service Administrator has the equivalent access of a user who is assigned the Owner role at the subscription scope.
  - The Service Administrator has full access to the Azure portal.
- **Co-Administrator** (200 per subscription)
  - The Co-Administrator has the equivalent access of a user who is assigned the Owner role at the subscription scope.
