# Azure AD

## Introduction to Active Directory

- Characteristics
  - AD is cloud-based and geo-distributed
    - Your tenant is distributed amongst many servers in Azure.
    - Provides high level of availability and scalability.
  - AD is multi-tenant.
    - You're running a shared platform.
    - Each tenant is segmented off on its own.
    - Provides ability to give permissions from one tenant to another for certain accounts.
  - Identity & Access
    - Can be identity/access provider for Microsoft accounts for e.g. Office 365.
    - In-house & third party developed applications can also leverage this service.
  - Integrates with local AD
  - Provides SSO
    - For third party or in-house applications.
- Global administrator = Root
- Can be managed by Azure Portal, Powershell/CLI, Microsoft Graph and API
  - Microsoft Graph
    - Microsoft has many APIs and Graph is a way of trying to creating single way of interacting with all APIs.

## Role Based Access Control

- Roles defines actions that role is capable of doing.
- ðŸ’¡ Roles are assigned to users and users only.
- â— Pre-built roles only.
  - No custom roles.
  - You can create custom that are application specific and are outside of the direct administration of Azure AD
- Roles are assigned at tenant level.
  - If you need separation of roles, you can create a new tenant and assign roles and permissions on that account.

## Custom Domains

- You initially get `tenantname.onmicrosoft.com`
- Custom names must be fully qualified: Not a local name but an online namae.
- Ownership must be verified
  - Microsoft gives text records (TXT or MX)
  - You put text record in DNS to get verified
- You can verify multiple domains
- Possible to register subdomains but you register parent domain.
- In Portal -> AD -> Custom domain names -> Add custom domain

## Multiple Directories

- ***Resource independence***
  - Resource in one directory does not have access to resource in other directory
  - No forests, trusts etc.
- ***Administrative independencies***
  - If you're global admin in one directory doesn't mean you have any access in other directory.
- Synchronization independence
  - You can synchronize to specific directory and it does not impact other directories.
- Switch directory in Portal -> AD -> Overview -> Switch directory

## Conditional Access

- Can be applied on users, locations, devices, applications.
- Policies allow you to have
  - One application with multiple rules
  - One rule with multiple applications
- â— Only available in Azure AD Premium
- Condition (if something) -> Control (do something)
  - Conditions
    - Users and groups: Groups, User Id, Locations (IP)
    - Cloud apps
    - Device platform and state: Domain Joined, Compliant, Lost or Stolen
    - Locations (IP)
    - Client apps
  - Control: Allow, Deny, MFA
    - Multi-factor authentication
    - Compliant device
    - Approved client app
    - Terms of use
    - Custom and session controls
- Manage in AD - Conditional Access
- Exampel policy: Marketing app from US only
  - Assigments
    - *Users and groups*: All users
    - *Cloud apps*: Marketing app (registered in Azure AD)
    - *Conditions*
      - *Locations*: Include any location but exclude *Contoso location*
        - *Contoso locations* is a ***named location*** (AD -> Conditional Access -> Named locations) for US locations.
      - *Client apps*: Apply policy with access from Browser but not from mobile apps and desktop clients.
  - Access controls: Block access

## Access Reviews

- Access review is created for an identified reviewer.
  - Duration can be set
  - Usually created by administrators.
  - Reviewers can approve or deny.
- Access review can be a member of programs.
  - A program groups reviews together.
- Managed in Access Reviews (separate view, not included in AD)

## Administrative Units

- Container of resources
- Used for
  - Delegating administrative permissions over subsets of users
  - Applying policies to a subset of users
- Useful in organizations with independent (autonomous) divisions
- An administrative unit is a directory object that can be created and populated with resources/users.
- AD Premium feature
- E.g. a central administrator can
  - Create an administrative unit for a particular school (Business school)
  - Populate it with only the Business school users
  - Central administrator can add the Business school IT staff to a scoped role
    - Grants the IT staff of Business school administrative permissions only over the Business school administrative unit

## Identity Protection

- Detection
  - Vulnerabilities
    - E.g. MFA not configured, Unmanaged cloud apps, priviliged identity management (only grant identity to user for a set period of time).
  - Risk events (e.g. user signin in from unknown detection)
    - E.g. leaked credentials on internet, anonymous IP addresses (VPNs etc.), suspicious IP addresses, impossible travel (superman event, user logs in from NY and after 5 minutes logs in from Hong Kong), Unknown locations, Infected devices.
- Investigations
  - Recieve notifications
  - Workflows *(when, who, what happened)*
  - Analysis: How can you apply policies to prevent future events?
- Policies
  - *User risk policy*: E.g. if user risk event is high, allow access but require password change
  - *Sign-in risk*: E.g. if sign-in risk is medium, allow access but require MFA.

## Auditing and Monitoring

- AD -> Activity
  - Sign-in: See, filter, search log-on statuses
  - Audit logs: See, filter, search activity logs for Azure AD
- AD -> Users and groups
  - You can see user sign-in risks
- AD -> Azure AD Connect
  - Install Azure AD Connect health from here
  - Shows how health your Azure AD Connecti s
