# Azure Files

- 99.9% SLA with availability, redundancy and disaster recovery.
- Typical use cases:
  - Lift and shift
  - Hybrid solutions
  - Born-in-cloud applications that require shared storage are
  - Storage for cross-platform solutions
  - Any workload that currently uses a file server or NAS providing SMB access
- REST compatible
- **SMB**-compatible
  - File protocol over port 445
  - Can be mounted by Linux & windows & macOS compatible
  - Versions
    - **SMB 1**: Limited block sizes, chatty protocl
    - **SMB 2.1** *(Supported by Azure)*
      - No encryption
      - Better network performance than SMB 1.0
      - Group file shares, software shares
      - Supported >Windows 7, > Windows Server 2008
    - **SMB 3** *(Supported by Azure)*
      - Active-active support: Clustring with nodes
      - Transparent failover
      - RDMA support, multi channel > Lower latency
      - Enables usage of SQL and Hyper-V
      - Encryption support
      - Supported > Windows 8, > Windows Server 2012
  - Talks through port 445 and outbound connection
- ***Create Azure File Share***
  - Multiple Azure File shares can be created under a storage account
  - Each has a name and optional quota assigned
    - Quota limits the size up to 5120 GB
  - Storage -> Files -> File Share
- ***File access***
  - Access is via standard SMB client
  - Dialect of SMB is negotiated between the client and Azure Files upon connection
  - Encryption used if outside the Azure region or if required as part of the storage account configuration
  - SMB access utilizes the storage account name *(as user name)* and access key *(as password)*.
  - REST access can utilize SAS tokens

## Azure File Snapshots

- Delta snapshot of a file share
- Read-only, you can download your snapshot or mount it.
- Azure Backup can schedule and manage snapshots
- â— 200 snapshots per file share
- If the file share is deleted all snapshots are also deleted

## Replication options

- DFS-R (before it was File Replication Service)
- `xcopy`, `robocopy`
- Considerations: locking of files, data consistency, amount of data replicated and maintaining ACLs.

### Azure File Sync

- Enables replication from a single Azure Files share to one or more Windows based file servers
  - Windows service are in a synchronozation group.
- Utilizes an agent deployed on each Windows Server instance that's then registered with the Storage Sync service then added to a sync group.
- Cloud tiering
  - Least used data is moved to the cloud
    - Leaves a thumbprint on the server providing transparent access
    - Data is pulled down when access is requested.
  - Tiering is based on maintaining a certain percentage of free space.
    - Ensures around 20% is always free in file server.
  - Can be disabled
  - Is scoped to a file sync namespace.
  - â— File must be higher than 64 KB
- ***Quality of Service (QoS)***
  - Default configuration: Server will consume maximum possible bandwith for data transfer via the storage sync service.
  - Supports network limits to be configured
  - For a VM based file server, QoS of the hypervisor can be used.
- Considerations:
  - Avoid actions that'd cause data to be pulled down from the cloud
    - E.g. anti-virus scans, backups on-premises
  - ACL (Access Control Lists) are replicated to the cloud but are not enforced when accessed via Azure Files.
    - ðŸ’¡ Content should be restored to an IaaS VM file server to enable ACL enforcement.
  - Data can be pre-seeded via *Azure Databox* with some caveats
    - Enables pre-seeding instead of full copy over the network.
  - Be careful when combining other data replication technologies.
- ***Workflow for replication***
  1. Deploy a storage account
  2. Deploy a *Azure File Share*
  3. Deploy *Storage Sync service*
      - Must be in same region as storage account
  4. Create a *sync group*
      - Sync group has:
        - Storage account & file share
        - Server endpoints
        - Cloud endpoints
  5. Register server
      1. Sync Service -> Registered Service -> Download **Azure File Sync Agent**
      2. Install the service and register the server
  6. Add file share into the *sync group* as server endpoint
      - ðŸ’¡ You can have only 1 cloud endpoint for the same sync group
      - You can enable/disable cloud tiering
  7. Install agent on file server
      - Supported >Windows Server 2012
      - Selected files can be skipped
  8. Register server to the *storage sync service* as server endpint
- â— ***Scale and Limits***
  - **15** storage sync services per subscription
  - **30** sync groups per storage service
  - **1** cloud endpoint and **50** server endpoints per sync group
  - **4** TB maximum space
  - **100** GB maximum file size
  - **64** KB minimum file size to be tiered
- ***Troubleshooting***
  - Check if TCP 445 is open for outbound traffic.
  - In metrics you can monitor for problems.
  - In Sync Services -> Sync Groups -> Group -> You can see health status and action recommendations for problems for cloud and server endpoints
  - In Event Viewer you can check FileSync events
