# Virtual Network (VNet)

- Communications and security boundary
  - Provides network isolation and segmentations
  - Enables Azure resources to communicate with each other securely
    - E.g. VM's, storage accounts, App Service apps, Azure SQL database instances
- Uses Azure network backbone
  - Communications are internal by default unless you explicitly make it external
- Name resolution
  - Azure-provided DNS
  - DNS service
- Traffic filtering
  - NSGs
  - Network Virtual Appliances
- ❗ 50-100 VNets allowed per subscription
- ❗ A resource can only be created in a virtual network that exists in the same region and subscription as the resource.
- **Why multiple VNets?**
  - Saving money
    - Service chaining: Share a network virtual appliance among several VNets
  - Segmenting workloads
    - NSGs and UDRs give you routing and traffic control
    - E.g. hub and spokes
  - Securing traffic
    - Private connectivity that uses the Microsoft backbone network
- ***Moving a VNet***
  - ❗ When moving a virtual network, you must also move its dependent resources
    - For VPN Gateways
      - You must move IP addresses, virtual network gateways, and all associated connection resources.
    - 💡 Local network gateways can be in a different resource group.
  - To move a peered virtual network, you must first disable the virtual network peering
  - ❗ You can't move a virtual network to a different subscription if the virtual network contains a subnet with resource navigation links
    - For example, if an Azure Cache for Redis resource is deployed into a subnet, that subnet has a resource navigation link.

## Role of VNet

- You can link app services, storage accounts, VM's
- Provides traffic isolation and segmentation
- Runs on Azure backbone network
- Configure communication with Internet
  - 💡 Ensure only VMs that need public IP addresses get one.
- You need to link VNets together to allow communication
- Control traffic flows into the VNET, within the VNET, and between VNets.
- Have IPv4 address space
  - Uses CIDR block of private RFC 1918 addresses that are not publicy/internet routable themselves
- VNets are divided into subnets
  - E.g. in multi-tiered application, web-tier, business-tier, data-tier
    - Good for protecting access using NSGs
    - Good for having jumpbox and protecting who can connect to jump-box

## VNet Design Best Practices

- Create subnets based on workloads
  - E.g. all of your web front-ends will have similar access requirements, then you can bind NSG's on subnet level.
- Bind NSGs at the subnet level
  - Not good to bind at VNet level for better troubleshooting
- Deploy a network virtual appliance (NVA) and user-defined routes (UDRs) to further customize traffic.
  - **Virtual appliance (NVA)**
    - E.g. enterprise grade firewall appliance, load balancer appliance
    - They exist in Azure marketplace
    - They'll be installed in VNet as a VM
  - **User defined routes (UDRs)**
    - Customize and control routing in a VNet
- Implement site-to-site or point-to-site VPN tunnels with on-premises environment

## Deploying a VNet

- You can use ARM templates e.g. from Github.
  - Visual Studio is recommended for editing templates
- During deployment:
  - *Name*: Must be unique
  - *Subnet*: Default gives you one subnet, for more you can use ARM template or PowerShell/CLI
  - *DDoS protection*
    - Microsoft publishes their datacenter public IP address
    - Bad actors run port-scanners on those IP addresses all the time
  - *Service endpoints*
    - Allows you to integrate Azure PaaS services
- After deployment:
  - *Address space*
    - You cannot edit
    - You need to create new and delete old one.
  - *Subnets*
    - You can always add new subnets & deploy gateway subnet that'll be used by an Azure gateway.
  - *DNS server*
    - Default is azure provided
    - You can use custom by additional DNS servers
      - Affect all VMs
      - Still uses Azure DNS when necessary
      - Used when e.g. site-to-site or point-to-site connections, it'll affect all VMs.
  - *Diagram*
    - You can enable network watcher here.
    - You then load in subscription or RG and enable.
    - It shows topology

## Network Security Groups (NSG)

- Stateful firewall for inbound and outbound traffic
  - Stateful = 5-tuple hash
    - Source + destination IP and ports
    - Protocol
- Has default rules
- Augmented rules
  - Allow you specify list of IP-addresses
  - No need to create several rules for same list
- **Service tags**
  - Azure defined named IP address endpoints
  - E.g. *Internet*, *VirtualNetwork*, *AzureLoadBalancer*, *AzureTrafficManager*, *Storage*, *SQL*, *AzureCosmosDB*, *AzureKeyVault*.
  - Allows you to use names instead of IP addresses
- **Application Security Groups (ASGs)**
  - Custom (user-defined) logical identifiers
  - You can associate IP ranges and then use it as source/destination in NSG's.
  - E.g. *WebServer*, *WappServers*, *DbServers*
- Can be bound to VNets, subnets or NICs
  - 💡 Bind to subnets
- Security rules
  - Priority: Lower the number, higher the priority of the rules

## IP Addressing Best Practices

- If a VM doesn't need a public IP address (PIP), then don't assign one and use an Azure load balancer instead.
- Plan your VNet private address space to avoid overlap.
  - Different from on-premises
  - Different from other VNets in Azure
- Never configure networking from within the VM
  - Do it on Azure instead using Azure abstractions

## Network Interfaces

- Assigned to a single subnet.
- Have a public or private IP that's dynamic or static.
- *IP forwarding*
  - E.g. if you have network appliance and you want to give it ability to forwar traffic that's not destined for itself
