# Connecting VNets

- You don't need to have a Layer 3 router to route traffic from subnet to subnet
- Azure system routes take care of the routing for you automatically

## Options

### VPN Gateway

- Creates IPsec/IKEv2 tunnel and always-on connection
- Used for connecting VPN's in cloud or hybrid scenario.

### Inside Azure

#### VNet-to-VNet VPN

- Create isolation or administrative boundaries
- Provide cross-region geo-redundancy and replication securely
- No traffic crosses the public internet
- Separate VPN gateways costs while VNet peering is free.
- 💡 Make sure your VNet address spaces do not overlap.
- Troubleshooting
  - Verify connectivity through peering
    - Set up Azure DNS

#### VNet peering

- ❗ Seamless connection between two Azure VNets.
  - The peered networks appear as one, for connectivity purposes.
  - Name resolution does not flow, requires own DNS zone
- Runs on Azure backbone
- 💡 You can peer across regions and subcriptions
- Peering can overcome misplaced VMs
- Save money with service chaining (e.g. services' communication are chained through a subnet)
- ❗ Peering must be done on both sites
  - VNet1 <=> VNet2 and VNet2 <=> VNet1
- ***Configuration***
  - **Allow forwarded traffic**
    - Am I peering from a hub VNet that'll have IP-forwarder?
    - Allow peers (other VNets) to forward traffic to go through.
  - **Allow gateway transit**
    - Am I hosting a VPN gateway?
  - **Use remote gateways**
    - Is this network use peers gateway?
    - ❗ VNets must be in same region
- Enables **force tunnelling**
  - E.g. when all Internet traffic must go through on-premises firewall device.
  - You can use *user defined routes* for all outbound traffic to go back through VPN gateway to on-premises.
- ❗ Peerings are not transitive
  - If you peer spoke1 <=> spoke2 and spoke2 <=> spoke3 then spoke1 cannot communicate with spoke3 automatically.
  - Common solution is transiting VNet with **Hub and Spoke topology**.
    - Topology is a segmentation
      - **When to segment with VNets and when with subnets?**
        - Depends on bureaucratic reasons
        - E.g. different VNets when
          - Different cost centers/groups need management autonomy
          - You want to completely isolate different workloads
    - Name resolution needs configurations
      - You can't do with Azure provided DNS as all your hosts have then `internal.cloudapp.net`
      - In peering azure provided DNS won't work
- ***Troubleshooting tips***
  - Azure blocks ICMP between Vnets and the Internet
    - ICMP is used for ping
    - Microsoft blocks it because of DDoS attacks.
  - Simplify NSGs as much as possible to reduce troubleshooting friction
  - Azure portal Diagnose and solve problems/Resource health blade is useful
  - Network Watcher and Network Permormance Monitor make troubleshooting much easier
    - **Network Watcher**
      - Shows where's the traffic is captured/denied
      - Suite of tools
        - **Topology**: e.g. VNet's, subnets, VM's, NIC's
        - **Variable Packet Capture**: Captures TCP packages at NIC level as wireshark files.
        - **IP Flow Verify**: Troubleshoots NSG
        - **Next hop**: Troubleshoots route tables
        - **Connection troubleshoot**: Why it does not connect?
        - Diagnostics Logging
        - Security Group View
        - NSG Flow Logging
        - VPN Gateway Troubleshooting
        - Network Subscription Limits
        - Role Based Access Control
      - In Portal you can search for Network Watcher and enable it on VM's
    - **Network Performance Monitor**
      - E.g. top network health events, expressroute monitor, service endpoint monitor, performance monitor
      - It ties in logs/metrics with Log Analytics.
      - Part of Insights & Analytics Azure management solution.
      - Works with installing Microsoft Monitoring Agent (MMA) in VM.
      - ***Flow***
        1. Deploy Insight & Analytics and then select Network Performance Monitor
        2. Choose VM and click on "Connect", it'll install `MicrosoftMonitoringAgent`

### Hybrid Connections

#### Site-to-site VPN

- Two VPN devices connect to each other.
- ***Flow***
  1. Deploy a ***VPN Gateway*** resource in Azure
      - Requires gateway subnet (or DMZ subnet).
      - Different SKUs: Basic, VpnGw1, VpnGw2, VpnGw3
          - You get more bandwith, site-to-site and point-to-site points.
          - Don't use basic for production
      - You can see the deployed VPN Gateway in *Connected Devices* in subnet.
  2. Deploy a ***Local Network Gateway*** as well.
      - For your on-prem gateway device, you need to set up one of the route table configurations:
          - **PolicyBased**
          - Handle route tables manually
          - ❗ Does not work with BGP failover, active-to-active configurations
          - **RouteBased**
          - 💡 Always use if possible
              - Some VPN devices do not support it
              - What's compatible is documented on Microsoft docs.
  3. Create a connection between two gateways
      - Create local-to-azure in Local Network Gateway
      - Create azure-to-local in VPN Gateway
      - In Shared Key in connection blade, specify a key.

#### Point-to-site VPN

    - ALlows access to Azure resources through VPN tunnel from a client agent.
    - More portable way
    - ***Flow***
        1. On Azure deploy VPN gateway
        2. In Point-to-site configuration blade download VPN client
        3. Deploy agent (a VPN Client) from VPN gateway
        4. Install on individual endpoints (e.g. laptops)
    - Allows connection outside network perimeter

#### Express route

- High speed secure connection between on-prem and cloud

#### Best practices for High Availability

    - ***Combine ExpressRoute and VPN***
    - In gateway subnet
        - Deploy ExpressRoute gateway
        - Deploy VPN Gateway
    - Both gateways gives access to front-end tier and a jumpbox in a management subnet
    - If ExpressRoute goes down VPN gateway gets activated
    - ***Deploy two VPN's***
    - Requires enabling BGP in gateway link
        - Robust routing
        - Enable active-to-active connection configuration
        - ❗ Only allowed RouteBased routing configuration
    - Two VPN gateways on-prem
    - Two VPN gateways on-prem
    - Allows redundant active-to-active connection to single gateway.
        - You have one active and one stand-by gateway

## Routing

- **System Routes vs. User-defined Routes**
  - ***Situations***
    - You need to move one VM to another VNet.
      - It requires re-deploying
    - Isolation & segmentations
      - E.g. development / production VNet
    - ***Hub & Spoke Topology***
      - *Hub*: VNet have Virtual Network Appliance (e.g. firewall), or gateway
        - You don't want to have *Virtual Network Appliance* as it costs both money and resources.
      - *Spokes*
        - Other VNets (e.g. front-end, back-end)
        - You can force communicates with each other through Hub.
  - Internet calls and calls from internet
    - Handled by Azure using system routes
    - You don't need to manipulate them
  - If you want to override system routes (e.g. for Hub & Spoke topology)
    - You need User Defined Routing
    - For network appliance you need to configure IP forwarding
      - Enables it to pass on traffic that it's not destined for itself.
