# Azure Key Vault

- Helps safeguard cryptographic keys and secrets used by cloud applications and services.
- You can encrypt keys and secrets (such as authentication keys, storage account keys, data encryption keys, `.PFX` files, and passwords) by using keys that are protected by hardware security modules (HSMs).
- You can import or generate keys in HSMs. If you choose to do this, Microsoft processes your keys in FIPS 140-2 Level 2 validated HSMs (hardware and firmware).
  - HSM = Hardware security module
- Streamlines the key  process and enables you to maintain control of keys that access and encrypt your data.
  - Developers can create keys for development and testing, and then seamlessly migrate them to production keys.
  - Security administrators can grant (and revoke) permission to keys, as needed.
- Administration
  - It can be created and managed by an organization's administrator who manages other Azure services for an organization.
    - E.g.:
      - Administrator would sign in with an Azure subscription, create a vault for the organization in which to store keys, and then be responsible for operational tasks, such as:
        - Create or import a key or secret.
        - Revoke or delete a key or secret.
        - Authorize users or applications to access the key vault, so they can then manage or use its keys and secrets.
        - Configure key usage (for example, sign or encrypt).
        - Monitor key usage.
      - This administrator would then provide developers with URIs to call from their applications, and provide their security administrator with key usage logging information.
