# Media Processing

## Media Services

- Extensible platform that enables developers to build scalable media management and delivery applications.
- It is based on REST APIs that enable you to securely upload, store, encode, and package video or audio content for both on-demand and live streaming delivery to various clients (for example, TV, PC, and mobile devices).
- Should be used with Content Delivery Network (CDN)
- Supports:
- Secure Media, Encoding, On-Demand origin, Live ingest, Live Origin, Advertising, Media Job Scheduling, Static/Dynamic Packaging, Content Protection, Live Encoding, Analytics, Identity Management.
- Also partner technologies: Media processors, origin servers, live encoders etc.
- Packaging
- **Static packaging** (traditional)
  - Have different assets (files) for different protocols.
  - Eg. HLS for HLS protocol (apple, mac)
  - Eg. Smooth for Smooth Protocol (XBOX, Windows)
  - Eg. MP4 for HTTPS
- **Dynamic packaging**
  - MP4 asset can be automatically adopted to those protocals.

## Computer Vision API

- API for advanced algorithms for processing images and returning information.
- Use cases/fatures:
  - ***Tag images based on content***.
    - Based on more than 2000 recognizable objects, living beings, scenery, and actions
  - ***Generate descriptions of the content***
    - A collection of content tags forms the foundation for an image 'description' displayed as human readable language formatted in complete sentences.
    - Various descriptions are evaluated and a confidence score is generated.
  - ***Color schemes***
    - The colors are analyzed in three different contexts: foreground, background, and whole. They are grouped into twelve 12 dominant accent colors. Those accent colors are black, blue, brown, gray, green, orange, pink, purple, red, teal, white, and yellow. Depending on the colors in an image, simple black and white or accent colors may be returned in hexadecimal color codes.
  - ***Optical Character Recognition (OCR)***
    - Identify printed text found in images
    - You can use the result for search and numerous other purposes like medical records, security, and banking
  - Other features include:
    - Categorize images
    - Identify the type and quality of images
    - Detect human faces and return their coordinates
    - Recognize domain-specific content
    - Flag adult content
    - Crop photos to be used as thumbnails
    - Recognize handwritten text
    - Distinguish color schemes
