# Azure Machine learning

- Azure Machine learning is an end-to-end data science and analytics solution that's integrated into Azure.
- Built on top of open source technologies: Jupyter Notebook, Conda, Python, Docker, Apache Spark, and Kubernetes (also from Microsoft, e.g. Cognitive Toolkit)
- It allows users to develop experiments as well as deploy data and models via the cloud.
- Its composed of
  - Azure Machine Learning **Workbench**
    - Desktop application that includes command-line tools.
    - It allows users to help manage learning solutions via data ingestion and preparation, model development, experiment management,
  - Azure Machine Learning **Experimentation Service**
    - Helps handling the implementation of machine learning experiments
    - Provides project management, roaming, sharing, and git integration to support the Workbench.
    - Allows implementation of services across a range of environment options such as Local native, Local Docker container, or Scale out Spark cluster in Azure.
    - Creates Virtual environments for scripts to provide an isolated space with reproducible results.
      - Documents run history information
      - Visually displays the information so you can select the best model from your experiments.
  - Azure Machine Learning **Model Management Service**
    - Provides users the ability to deploy predictive models into a range of environments.
    - Information on models, such as the version and lineage, is notated from training runs throughout the deployment.
    - The models themselves are registered, managed, and stored in the cloud.
  - **MMLSpark (Microsoft Machine Learning Library for Apache Spark)**
    - Open-source Spark Package providing data science and Deep Learning tools for Apache Spark.
    - MMLSpark allows users to create robust, analytical, and highly scalable predictive models for large image and text datasets.
  - **Visual Studio Code Tools for AI**
    - Extension used with Visual Studio code that allows you to test, build, and deploy AI and Deep Learning solutions.
    - It contains various integration points from Azure Machine learning.
    - E.g. visualization of run history that displays the performance of training runs, select targets for your scripts to execute.
- Fully support various open source technologies, such as scikit-learn, TensorFlow, and more.
- Traditional BI flow: *(value & amount of information increases in each step)*
  - **Descriptive analytics**: What happened?
    - Leads to hindsight
  - **Diagnostic analytics**: Why did it happen?
    - Leads to insight
  - **Predictive analytics**: What will happen?
    - Leads to optimization & foresight
  - **Prescriptive analytics**: How can we make it happen?
