# StorSimple

- A physical device.
- Creates workflows for migrating data to a cloud storage center or back on premise.
- Combination of service device management tools.
- On-premises hybrid storage array
- Manages communication with cloud storage
  - Helps to ensure the security and confidentiality of data
- Includes
  - Solid state drives (SSDs)
  - Hard disk drives (HDDs)
  - Support for clustering and automatic failover.
  - Shared processor, shared storage, and two mirrored controllers
- You can alternatively use StorSimple to create a virtual device that replicates the architecture and capabilities of the actual hybrid storage device.
  - The StorSimple virtual device (also known as the ***StorSimple Virtual Appliance***) runs on a single node in an Azure virtual machine.
- StorSimple provides a web-based user interface (the StorSimple Manager service), or you can use PowerShell  CLI.
- Security through encryption algorithms to protect data stored in or traveling between the components of StorSimple solution.

## Transparent integration

- 📝 Uses Internet Small Computer System Interface (iSCSI) protocol to invisibly link data storage facilities.
  - iSCSI (Small Computer System Interface)
    - Storage networking standard for linking data storage facilities over TCP/IP
- Data that's stored in the cloud, in the data center, or on remote servers, appears to be stored at a single location.

## Reduced storage costs

- Compression
- **Deduplication**
  - 📝 Eliminates redundant versions of the same data *(deduplication)*

## Simplified storage management

- Provides system administration tools that you can use to configure and manage data:
  - Backup and restore functions from a *Microsoft Management Console (MMC)* snap-in.
  - Separate, optional interface to extend StorSimple management and data protection services to content stored on SharePoint servers.

## Improved disaster recovery and compliance

- Does not require extended recovery time. Instead, it restores data as it is needed.
  - Regular operations can continue with minimal disruption.
- You can configure policies to specify backup schedules and data retention.

## Data mobility

- Data uploaded to Microsoft Azure cloud services can be accessed from other sites for e.g. recovery and migration purposes.
- You can use StorSimple to configure StorSimple virtual devices on virtual machines (VMs) running in Microsoft Azure.
  - The VMs can then use virtual devices to access stored data for test or recovery purposes.

## Data Tiering

- Automatically tiers and classifies your data.
- Based on how often you access it.
- Data is always being shuffled between tiers as the mechanism learns about your usage patterns.
  - To enable quick access, it stores hot data
    - On SSD.
    - Locally
  - It stores occasionally used (warm data) data
    - on HDDs in the device or on servers at the data center.
  - Inactive data
    - Automatically migrates to the cloud.
- Rearranges data and storage assignments as usage patterns change
