# Azure Storage

- Massively scalable to support big data scenarios & small amount of data.
- Access via REST API or SDKs: .NET, Java/Android, Node.js, PHP, Ruby, Python, PowerShell.
- Auto-partitioning with automatically load-balancing based on traffic.
- Billing is calculated by usage, not capacity.
- Elastic & decoupled from application.
- All resources in Storage can be protected from anonymous access and can be used in the Valet-Key pattern.
  - **Valet-Key Pattern**
    - Access resources using valet key (=key with granular & time-limited access for pre-defined operations/scopes).
    - E.g. SAS

## Storage Types

### Azure Blobs

- VHDs and large blocks of data (e.g. images or documents)
- 📝 ***Soft delete*** allows you to have a retention policy for files up to X days after deletion up to 365 days.
- Entities
  - **Page blobs**
    - Lend themselves to storing random access files **up to 8TB** in size
    - Ideal for VHD storage for Virtual Machines.
  - **Block blobs** are for images or other documents and files **up to 4TB** in size.
  - **Append blobs** are similar in format to block blobs but allow append operations.
    - Ideal for auditing and logging applications such as log or monitoring data from many sources.

#### VM disks

- Azure IaaS VMs can attach OS and Data Disks.
- Disks can be premium storage (SSD based) or Standard storage (HDD).
- ❗ Each storage account has a limit of 20000 IOPS throughput.
  - 💡 To be able to provide maximum performance with multiple disks => those data disks across many storage accounts.
- **Deployment**
  - Through Portal, PowerShell or Azure CLI.
  - You can deploy as top-level disk resource that'll be attached later or can create within VM creation template

##### Azure Disk Encryption

- Azure Disk Encryption is a capability that helps you encrypt your Windows and Linux IaaS VM disks.
- Disk Encryption leverages the industry standard BitLocker feature of Windows and the DM-Crypt feature of Linux to provide volume encryption for the OS and data disks.
- The solution is integrated with Azure Key Vault to help you control and manage the disk-encryption keys and secrets.
- The solution also ensures that all data on the VM disks are encrypted at rest in your Azure storage.

##### Disk types

###### Unmanaged disks

- Available in *Standard* and *Premium* tiers.
- Any Azure VM size can have multiple standard disks attached.
- A storage account can only store one type of disk.
- Can have disk snapshots
- ❗ Maximum of 20,000 IOPS per account, managed disk has not IOPS limit.

###### Managed disks

- Simplifies the creation and management of Azure IaaS VM Disks.
  - Azure manages the storage accounts.
  - Only choose storage type and the disk size.
- Other benefits:
  - Upgrade a standard disk to a premium disk and downgrade a premium disk to a standard disk.
    - ❗ Requires you to detach the disk from a VM before it's upgraded or downgraded.
  - The ceiling of 20000 IOPS disappears without needing to manage additional storage accounts.
  - ❗ Allows up to 10000 VM disks per subscription.
    - In VM Scale Sets allows up to 1000 VMs per scale set using a Marketplace image.
  - Better reliability for Availability Sets
    - All the disks in a VM are stored in the same scale unit
    - Each VMs disks will be stored in separate scale units
  - 99.9% availability
  - Granular access control
  - ***Managed disk snapshots***
    - Stand-alone objects and can be used to create new disks.
    - 💡 You are only billed for the used size of the data on the disk.
      - E.g. if a 4 TB disk that holds 500 GB of data, the snapshot will be billed for 500 GB.
  - ***Images***: Managed Disks support creating a managed custom image
  - ***Images vs. snapshots***
    - An image is a copy of the VM and all disks attached.
    - A snapshot is a single disk copy.
    - A snapshot is not a suitable choice for the scenario with multiple striped data disks. No snapshot co-ordination is available.
  - ***Managed Disks and Encryption***
    - By default Managed disks are encrypted by ***Azure Storage Service Encryption***
      - Provides encryption at rest for disks, snapshots, and images
      - Also available at the VM level
        - In Windows it uses BitLocker Drive Encryption
    - ***Azure Key Vault*** integration is included which allows users to bring their own disk encryption keys.
- Sizing and pricing

  | Type | Allowed disks | Pricing |
  | ---- | ------------- | ------- |
  | **Premium** | P4 (32 GB) -> P50 (4 TB) | Pay for allocated size without transaction charges |
  | **Standard** | S4 (32 GB) -> S5 (4 TB) | Billed only for the number of transactions performed |

### Azure Tables

- Structured data (a NoSQL store)
  - Schema-less entities with strong consistency.
  - Entity group transactions for atomic batching.
  - Best for Key/value lookups on partition key and row key.
- 💡 Ideal for: User, device and service metadata, structured data.
- Supports OData protocol.
- Tables scale as demand increases.
  - No limits on number of table rows or table size.
  - Dynamic load balancing of table regions.
- Components
  - **URL format:** `http://<storage account>.table.core.windows.net/<table>`
  - **Storage Account** : All access to Azure Storage is done through a storage account.
  - **Table**
    - Collection of entities
    - Don't enforce a schema on entities
      - which means a single table can contain entities that have different sets of properties.
    - The number of tables that a storage account can contain is limited only by the storage account capacity limit.
  - **Entity** : An entity is a set of properties, similar to a database row. An entity can be up to 1 MB in size.
  - **Properties**
    - Name-value pair.
    - Each entity can include up to 252 properties to store data
    - Each entity also has 3 system properties:
      - Partition key
      - Row key
      - Timestamp

#### Partitioning

- Rate limit
  - ❗ A partition has a scalability target of 500 entities per second.
    - The throughput may be higher during minimal load on the storage node, but it will be throttled down when the node becomes hot or very active.
- `PartitionKey` & `RowKey` properties
  - Can store up to 1 KB of string values.
  - Empty strings are also permitted; however, `null` values are not.
  - **Clustered index sorting**: Ascending PartitionKey then by ascending RowKey.
    - The sort order is observed in all query responses.
  - Each partition server can serve one or more partitions.
  - You should use more partitions, so that the Azure Table service can distribute the partitions to more partition servers.

### Azure Queues

- For message passing in applications and for backlog processing
- Ideal for: Data sharing, Big Data, Backups. Functions
- Functions:
  - Decouple components and scale them independently.
  - Scheduling of asynchronous tasks.
  - Building processes/work flows.
  - No limits on number of queues or messages.
  - Message visibility timeout to protect from component issues.
  - **UpdateMessage** to checkpoint progress part way through.

### Azure Files

- 📝 Shared storage for applications using the standard SMB 3.0 protocol.
- Access data
  - ***VMs and cloud services***: mounted shares via file I/O APIs.
  - ***On-premises***: in a share via the File storage API.
  - E.g. on linux you run `sudo mount`
- Typical uses
  - Migrating on-premises applications that rely on file shares.
  - Transfer file between vm in different subnet without vpn.
  - Storing shared application settings, for example in configuration files.
  - Storing diagnostic data such as logs, metrics, and crash dumps in a shared location.
  - Storing tools and utilities needed for developing or administering Azure virtual machines or cloud services.

#### Azure Files Components

- ***Storage Account***
- ***Share***
  - SMB 3.0 file share in Azure.
  - All directories and files must be created in a parent share.
  - An account can contain an unlimited number of shares.
  - A share can store an unlimited number of files, up to the capacity limits of the storage account.
- ***Directory***: An optional hierarchy of directories.
- ***File***: A file in the share. A file may be up to 1 TB in size.
- ***URL format***: `https://[account].file.core.windows.net/<share>/<directory/directories>/`
  - E.g. `http://[account].file.core.windows.net/logs/CustomLogs/Log1.txt`

#### Azure File Sync

- On-premises -> File share in Azure
  - Turns your file server into a cache of the Azure-based file share.
    - Centralizes your file shares in Azure Files, whilst maintaining the compatibility of an on-premises file server.
  - Any protocol installed on the Windows Server can access the file share, including SMB, NFS, and FTPS.

##### Components

###### Storage Sync Service

- Azure resource created to host the Azure File Sync service.
- Required since service can sync between multiple storage accounts, hence an additional resource is required to manage this.
- A subscription can contain multiple storage sync services.

###### Sync Group

- Defines and controls the hierarchy and topology of the files to be synced.
- The sync group will contain *Cloud* and *Server* endpoints.
- Async service can contain multiple sync groups.

###### Registered Server

- Before adding a server endpoint to a sync group, the server must be registered with a storage sync service.
- A server can only be registered to a single sync service.
- Async service can host as many registered servers as you need.

###### Azure File Sync Agent

- To register a server, you need to install the Azure File Sync Agent.
- This is a small downloadable MSI package comprising three components:
  - `FileSyncSvc.exe`: Monitors changes on Server Endpoints, and for initiating sync sessions to Azure.
  - `StorageSync.sys`: A file system filter, which handles tiering files to Azure Files.
  - PowerShell Management cmdlets: PowerShell cmdlets for the `Microsoft.StorageSync` Azure resource provider.

###### Server Endpoint

- Once registered, you can add a server to a Sync group, this then becomes a server endpoint.
- A server endpoint is synonymous with a folder or a volume on the server that will cache the contents of the Azure File Share.
- Cloud tiering is configured individually by server endpoint.

###### Cloud Endpoint

- When added to a sync group, an Azure File Share is a cloud endpoint.
- One Azure File Share can only be a member of one Cloud Endpoint and thereby can only be a member of one Sync Group.
- Any files that exist in a cloud endpoint or a server endpoint before they are added to the sync group, automatically become merged with all other files in the sync group.

##### Features

- **Adding files to the File Share**
  - Adding and removing files directly within the Azure file share.
  - Syncs every 24 hours as detection job runs every 24 hours.
  - Only from on-prem to azure
- **Cloud tiering**
  - Caching mechanism to save space.
  - Flow:
    1. File is tiered
    2. The sync system filter replaces the local file with a pointer to the location if the Azure file share.
    3. When accessed locally the file is downloaded and opened for use, e.g.Hierarchical Storage Management (HSM).
- **Supported versions of Windows Server**: Windows Server 2012 R2 and Windows Server 2016
- **Access control lists (ACL)**
  - Supported and enforced on files held on Server endpoints.
  - ❗ Azure Files do not currently support ACLs.
- **NTFS compression**
  - Fully supported, and Sparse files are fully supported but are stored in the cloud as full files, and any cloud changes are synced as full files on server endpoints.
- **Failover Clustering**
  - Supported for File Server for *General Use* but not for *Scale-out file server* for application data.
  - ❗ *Cluster Shared* Volumes are not supported.
  - To function correctly, the sync agent must be installed on every node of a cluster.
- **Data Deduplication**
  - Fully supported for volumes that do not have cloud tiering enabled.
- **Encryption solutions**
  - Azure File Sync, is known to work with BitLocker Drive Encryption and Azure Rights Management Services.
  - NTFS Encrypted File System does not work with Azure File Sync.

## Storage Performance and Pricing

1. **Standard**
2. **Premium**
   - SSD disk support for VMs.
   - Using multiple disks gives your applications up to 256 TB of VM storage
   - Up to 80,000 I/O operations per second (IOPS) per VM, and a disk throughput of up to 2,000 megabytes per second (MB/s) per VM.
   - Only LRS redundancy
   - Applications that require consistent high performance and low latency such as SQL Server, Oracle, MongoDB, MySQL, and Redis can run happily in Azure Premium Storage.
   - More expensive: The storage is allocated on creation and is charged for the whole disk size rather than the data used.

## Disk Types

| **Disk Type** | **Description** | 💡 **Suggested Use** |
| --- | --- | --- |
| **Azure Files** | SMB 3.0 interface, client libraries and a REST interface access from anywhere to stored files. | Application lift and shift using native file system API, Windows File Shares. |
| **Azure Blobs** | Client libraries, REST interface, for unstructured data stored in Block blobs | Streaming and random access, access application data from anywhere. |
| **Azure Disks** | Client libraries, REST interface for persistent data accessed from a VHD, | Access to data inside a Virtual machine on a VHD, lift and shift file system API apps that write to persistent disks. |
