# Role-Based Access Control (RBAC)

- You can assign roles to existing Azure AD identities that grants them pre-determined levels of access to an Azure subscription, resource group or individual resource.
- Some built-in roles:
  - **Owner** : Owner can manage everything, including access.
  - **Contributor** : Contributors can manage everything except access.
  - **Reader** : Readers can view everything, but can't make changes.
  - **User Access Administrator** : Allows you to manage user access to Azure resources.
  - **Virtual Machine Contributor** : Allows you to manage virtual machines, but not access to them, and not the virtual network or storage account they are connected to.

## Role Assignment

- Associates a **[security principal]**(#security-principals) to a **role** in a [**given scope**](#resource-scopes).

### Security principals

- **Users**
  - Users in AD of the subscription.
  - Can be assigned to external Microsoft accounts in same directory.
- **Groups**
  - AD security groups.
  - Best practice.
- **Service principals**
  - Service identities.
    - Authenticates with Azure AD to communicate with each other.
  - Can be  granted access to other resources by assigning roles.

### Resource Scopes

- Subscriptions, resource group, individual resources.
- Resource inherits assignments from its parent resources.
  - Access inheritance: Subscription => Resource Groups => Resources
- **Scoping to Resource Groups**
  - Add/remove and modify resources quickly without having to recreate assignments and scopes
  - Owner or contributor access => Does not require additional administrator assistance or having access to resources in other resource groups.

## Custom roles

- Use REST API.
- ❗ Azure AD tenant is limited to 2000 custom roles.
- Steps:
  1. Create a role definition with assignable scopes.
  2. Assign the role definition to a scope.

### Creating a new role definition

- 📝 To create a new custom role you run the `New-AzureRmRoleDefinition` cmdlet
- You can pass a JSON template to the cmdLet or use `PSRoleDefinitionObject`.
- E.g. json:

```json
  {
    "Name": "New Role 1",
    "Id": null,
    "IsCustom": true,
    "Description": "Allows for read access to Azure storage and compute resources",
    "Actions": [
      "Microsoft.Compute/\*/read",
      "Microsoft.Storage/\*/read",

    ],
    "NotActions": [
    ],
    "AssignableScopes": [
      "/subscriptions/c489345-9cd4-44c9-99a7-4gh6575315336g"
  ]
  }
```
