# Design a DevOps Strategy

## Greenfield & Brownfield

- Greenfield projects
  - Brand new, lacks any constraints imposed by prior work.
- Brownfield projects
  - Development and deployment of new software systems within the immediate presence of existing (legacy) software applications/services
- Greenfield vs Brownfield Ops

  | Brownfield | Greenfield |
  | ------------|------------|
  | Slow change, but reliable & scalable | Fast change, innovative and more tolerant of bugs |
  | Maintaining workloads across on-premise data centers | Maintaining workloads across externally sourced infrastructures |
  | Not cloud platform enabled | Cloud platform enabled |
  | Waterfall release cycles | Agile development cycles |
  | Legacy, monolithic tools | New, composable tools |
  | Legacy, serial processes | New, collaborative processes |

## Project Metrics and KPIs

- Faster Outcomes
  - **Deployment Frequency**
    - Increasing the frequency of deployments is often a critical driver in DevOps projects.
  - **Deployment Speed**
    - As well as increasing how often deployments happen, it’s important to decrease the time that they take.
  - **Deployment Size**
    - How many features, stories, and bug fixes are being deployed each time?
  - **Lead Time**
    - How long does it take from starting on a work item, until it is deployed?
- Efficiency
  - **Server to Admin Ratio**
    - Are the projects reducing the number of administrators required for a given number of servers?
  - **Staff Member to Customers Ratio**
    - Is it possible for less staff members to serve a given number of customers?
  - **Application Usage**
    - How busy is the application?
  - **Application Performance**
    - Is the application performance improving or dropping? (Based upon application metrics)?
- Quality and Security
  - **Deployment Failure Rates**
    - How often do deployments (and/or applications) fail?
  - **Application Failure Rates**
    - How often do application failures occur, such as configuration failures, performance timeouts, etc?
  - **Mean Time to Recover**
    - How quickly can you recover from a failure?
  - **Bug Report Rates**
    - You don’t want customers finding bugs in your code.
    - Is the amount they are finding increasing or decreasing?
  - **Test Pass Rates**
    - How well is your automated testing working?
  - **Defect Escape Rate**
    - What percentage of defects are being found in production?
  - **Availability**
    - What percentage of time is the application truly available for customers?
  - **SLA Achievement**
    - Are you meeting your service level agreements (SLAs)?
  - **Mean Time to Detection**
    - If there is a failure, how long does it take for it to be detected?
- Culture
  - **Employee Morale**
    - Are employees happy with the transformation and where the organization is heading?
    - Are they still willing to respond to further changes?
  - **Retention Rates**
    - Is the organization losing staff?
- Lead time vs. cycle time
