# Containers

- Has everything packaged in it to allow software to run (e.g. which OS, packages)
- Lightweight
- Code, runtime, system tools, and libraries
- Architecture: Infrastructure -> Host Operating System -> Container Service (Docker) -> Container Apps
- See also [DevSecOps - Container Security](./8.%20DevSecOps.md#container-security)

## Docker

- Tool to create container based applications.
- Includes code + any other dependencies to run your code.
- Makes easier to run your container on different computing environments
- **Architecture**
  - Daemon => Rest API => CLI
  - Docker daemon
    - Only runs on Linux because it depends on a number of Linux kernel features
      - There's ways to run it in Windows / MacOS
  - The Docker daemon itself exposes a *REST API*
  - Command line tool that lets you talk to the Docker daemon
- **`Dockerfile`** is a text file that defines the environment
  - Each line in file creates a layer
  - `FROM ubuntu`
    - The first statement in the Dockerfile. It refers to the parent image that this new image will be based upon
    - An image that doesn’t have a parent is called a base image and `FROM scratch` can be used instead.
- Commands:
  - Build: `docker build -t container-name .` in folder where Dockerfile exists
  - Run: `docker run -d -p 8080:80 --name app-name container-name`
  - List containers: `docker ps`
- ❗ You cannot build Windows containers in Linux
  - But you can build Linux containers in Windows

### Multi-stage builds

- **Problem**
  - It was popular to maintain two Dockerfiles one for development one for production (slimmed)
    - E.g. production merged different bash commands with `&&` to avoid creating additional layers.
      - Because each `RUN` instruction creates a new layer in the container image
      - E.g. with using `\` to wrap lines:

        ```dockerfile
          RUN powershell.exe -Command \
          $ErrorActionPreference = 'Stop'; \
          Invoke-WebRequest https://www.python.org/ftp/python/3.5.1/python-3.5.1.exe -OutFile c:\python-3.5.1.exe ; \
          Start-Process c:\python-3.5.1.exe -ArgumentList '/quiet InstallAllUsers=1 PrependPath=1' -Wait ; \
          Remove-Item c:\python-3.5.1.exe -Force
        ```

      - However this increases the build speed as each layer is cached separately when they are separate.
  - Another And then a `build.sh` was used to copy contents from one docker image to another.
- **Solution**
  - Single Dockerfile resulting in tiny production image, no scripts using multi-stage builds

    ```dockerfile
      FROM mcr.microsoft.com/dotnet/core/sdk:2.2 AS build-env # from docker hub, good to name with AS for flexible re-ordering
      WORKDIR /app # create directory

      # Copy csproj and restore as distinct layers
      COPY *.csproj ./
      RUN dotnet restore

      # Copy everything else and build
      COPY . ./
      RUN dotnet publish -c Release -o out

      # Build runtime image
      FROM mcr.mcrosoft.com/dotnet/core/aspnet:2.2 # for running application
      WORKDIR /app
      COPY --from=build-env /app/out .
      ENTRYPOINT [ "dotnet", "serverappname.dll" ]
    ```

  - A **multi-stage** data file consisting of two stages.
    1. Build application
    2. Run the application
    - Read more at [docker.com](https://docs.docker.com/develop/develop-images/multistage-build/)
  - Visual Studio Docker support
    - Right click on the project—> Add —-> Docker support
    - This will add `Dockerfile` as multiple stage build

### Docker compose

- A tool to define and run multi-container docker applications.
- Configure all containers in a single YAML file, then spin up all of them with a single command.
  - e.g. DB, cache service and WEB service with single command

## Kubernetes

- Kubernetes helps to:
  - Orchestrate containers
  - Deploy containers
  - Maintain and monitor containers
  - Scale applications
- Architecture:
  - Master: Deploy the Docker and Kubernetes tools
  - Nodes: Hosts the actual containers.

## Azure Service Fabric

- Solution making it simple to package, deploy, and manage scalable and reliable containers and microservices.
- Assists with the developing and managing cloud native applications.
- Intended for container-based applications running on enterprise-class, cloud-scale environments.
- To be able to [deploy using Azure Pipelines](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/service-fabric/service-fabric-tutorial-deploy-app-with-cicd-vsts):
  - Add new **Service Fabric Connection**
    - Requires a cluster endpoint
    - Authentication options:
      - **Azure Active Directory**
        - Add **Server certificate thumbprint**  of the server cert. used to create the cluster.
        - Also the cluster credentials in **Username** and **Password** fields.
      - **Certificate Based**
        - Requires:
          - **Server certificate thumbprint** of the server cert. used to create the cluster.
          - **Client certificate**
            - or cluster/server certificate
          - **Password** for the certificate
