# Visual Studio App Center

- [appcenter.ms](https://appcenter.ms)
  - Build, test, distribute, diagnostics, analytics, auth, data push mobile applications.
- Automate & manage the lifecycle of iOS; Android, Windows and macOS applications.
  - Connect to your repositories & automate your builds
  - Test builds on real devices in the cloud
  - Distribute apps to beta testers
  - Monitor real-world usage with crash and analytics data
  - Enable get feedback from users on the new features
- ðŸ“ It's used to:
  - Manage mobile target device sets and distribution groups
  - Managed target UI test device sets
  - Provision tester devices for deployment
  - Create public and private distribution group

## Distribution groups

- Controls access to releases
- Set of users e.g. QA Team, Canary users etc.
releases, such as Staging.
- Release the application to users via distribution groups
- Types ðŸ“
  - **Private**: Invited by e-mail to test application
  - **Public**:  Unauthenticated users, download application with a link.
  - **Shared**: Shared across multiple applications in a single organization.
    - Created at organization level, not application level.
- Device registration - example for iOS application
  - Devices have to be specified in the provisioning profile for the application
  - App Center will help register the tester device IDs into the Apple Development account
  - You will need the `.p12` certificate which was used to sign the application at build time.

## Releasing an application

- **Android**
  - Ensure you have updated the manifest and have a correctly configured Gradle build.
  - In Android Studio, choose ***Build > Generate Signed Bundle / APK*** and follow the steps in the wizard to build the app bundle or APK.
- **iOS / macOS**
  - â— Register each testers devices on Apple Developer portal as test devices.
  - In Xcode, go to Product > Archive to archive your app.
  - Export the archive using the proper provisioning profile.
- Windows: `.appx`, `.appxbundle`, `.appxupload`, `.msi`, `.msix`, `.msixbundle`, `.msixupload`, or `.zip`
- Other OS: `.zip`
