# Azure Artifacts

- Service that allows you to organize and control access to packages
- **Upstream sources**
  - Stores your produced packages and proxies & caches packages form remote feeds
  - Remote feeds can be one of the official public sources or a private source.
- **Package Graph**
  - Ensure that any dependencies of your package are also available in your feed
  - You can
    - republish them directly (not recommended)
    - or consume them from an upstream source.
- ❗ Packages are immutable: You cannot replace / update existing version.
- [Permissions](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/devops/artifacts/feeds/feed-permissions?view=azure-devops#feed-permissions-overview)
  
  | Permission | Reader | Collaborator | Contributor | Owner  |
  | ---------- |:------:|:------------:|:-----------:|:------:|
  | List and restore/install packages | ✓ | ✓ | ✓ | ✓ |
  | Save packages from upstream sources | | ✓ | ✓ | ✓ |
  | Push packages | | | ✓ | ✓ |
  | Unlist/deprecate packages | | | ✓ | ✓ |
  | Delete/unpublish package | | | | ✓ |
  | Edit feed permissions | | | | ✓ |

## Feeds

- Developers download & use packages from feeds itself
- You can create multiple feeds
- Each feed can have its own set of packages
- **Public feeds** (project-scoped)
  - If the project is private, the feed will be private;
    - If the project is public, the feed will be public e.g. accessible by everyone on internet.
- **Private feeds** (organization-scoped or project-scoped)
  - Can be accessed by whole organization or specific selected people in the organization.
  - Consumers need Personal Access Token with read access to packaging to download packages.
- Feeds can proxy public sources such as NuGet, npm, Maven and Python.
- You need to create Personal Access Token with write access to packaging to push packages.
- **Feed permissions**: Levels of access: *Owners*, *Contributors*, *Collaborators*, and *Readers*.

### Feed views

- Default: `@local`, `@prerelease`, `@release`, you can add more & delete (except `@local`)
  - The default URI of the feed points to `@local` that contains:
    - all packages published directly to the feed e.g. by `npm publish`
    - packages saved from upstream resources
- You can promote packages to them
- They get URL like `...feed@view/nuget/...`

## Best practices

- **Creating packages as part of a build**
  - Each repository should only reference one feed
  - On package creation, automatically publish packages back to the feed.
  - Enable retention policies to automatically cleanup old package versions
  - Promote your package to the correct view (have good quality in `@release` view)
  - If external teams are consuming your package, ensure that your `@release` view and `@prerelease` view are visible across the organization and/or organization
- **Consuming packages from public and internal sources as part of a build**
  - Each repository should have a unique feed
  - Configure upstream sources for public and internal sources
  - Sources not in your organization but in the same AAD tenant should be added using the feed locator
  - Ensure that the order of the sources matches your desired package resolution order
    - The feed will check each upstream in order, returning the package from the first source that has it.
  - To avoid confusion, place any public upstreams FIRST in your resolution order
