# Azure Pipelines

- Continuous integration & delivery service
- You can group pipeline steps into jobs, and jobs into stages.
  - Building, testing, and release can be automated using **stages**
- Before Azure had 2 different type of pipelines:
  - Build pipeline that results in artifact (`.yaml` file)
  - Release pipeline that takes the artifact and pushes it (UI only)
    - It's now the "old way" and new way only uses `.yaml` same pipeline for both
- A **job** is a series of tasks that run sequentially on the same **agent**
  - It has **tasks**, e.g. install packages & build solution
    - Manual Intervention task
      - Pauses an active workflow to do a manual task, can have instructions
      - Can continue or reject deployment on time out
  - Build is done on an **agent** (VM or a container), you can design your own agents.
    - [See container agents](./7.2.1.%20Azure%20Pipelines%20-%20Container%20Agents.md)
  - [Timeouts before job cancelled](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/devops/pipelines/process/phases#timeouts):
    - Forever on self-hosted agents
    - 360 minutes (6 hours) on Microsoft-hosted agents with public project or repository
    - 60 minutes on Microsoft-hosted agents with a private project or repository.
- Each pipeline has a source version control system
  - Can be GitHub, GitHub Enterprise, Azure Repos Git & TFVC, Bitbucket Cloud, Subversion
    - 💡 GitHub App is the recommended authentication method with GitHub.
  - You also have option called "Other Git" to e.g. use an on-prem git server.
- Has native support for Python, Java, JavaScript, PHP, Ruby, C#, C++ and Go
- [Using secrets](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/devops/pipelines/process/variables/#secret-variables):
  - ❗ Don't set secret variables in your YAML file.
  - Use the script's environment in order to pass secrets to the script.
  - Operating systems often log commands for the processes that they run, and you wouldn't want the log to include a secret that you passed in as an input.
- [Supports](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/devops/pipelines/tasks/test/publish-code-coverage-results?view=azure-devops) visualization of [Cobertura & JaCoCo test coverage tools](./1.2.%20Common%20tools%20for%20DevOps.md).
  - ❗ Only those 2!
- Use the **[secure files](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/devops/pipelines/library/secure-files?view=azure-devops)** library to store files such as signing certificates, SSH keys on the server.
- You can use **[runtime parameters](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/devops/pipelines/process/runtime-parameters?view=azure-devops)** to prompt for input when running manually.
- Retention policy
  - Used to configure how long runs and releases are to be retained by the system
  - 💡 You can use the *Copy Files task* to save your build and artifact data for longer than what is set in the retention policies

## Variables

### Variable

- Store values used in the pipeline
- Can be scoped to specific stages.
- There are some [predefined build variables](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/devops/pipelines/build/variables?view=azure-devops&tabs=yaml)
  - E.g. `System.HostType`, `Build.ArtifactStagingDirectory`, `Agent.HomeDirectory` .
- Usage

  ```yaml
    variables:
      configuration: debug
    steps:
    - task: MSBuild@1 # Use them once
      inputs:
        configuration: $(configuration) # Use the variable
    - task: MSBuild@1 # Use them again
      inputs:
        configuration: $(configuration) # Use the variable
  ```

### Variable Groups

- to store values that available across multiple pipelines.
- also to store secrets and other values that might need to be passed into a YAML pipeline.
  - Usage:

    ```yaml
      variables:
        - group: my-variable-group
      steps:
        - script: echo $(myhello) # uses macro syntax
        - script: echo $[variables.myhello] # uses runtime expression
    ```

## Triggers

- Pipelines are triggered by triggers e.g. commits to repository, webhooks etc.
- Defined in `.yaml` file but ❗ can override YAML continuous integration trigger in pipeline settings.
- **[Batch changes](https://github.com/microsoft/azuredevopslabs/blob/master/labs/vsts/continuousintegration/readme.md)**
  - When a build is running, the system stacks other changes and build them all at once.
  - In `yaml`:

    ```yaml
      trigger:
        batch: false
    ```

### Filters

- You can filter triggers by path, branch or tag.
  - E.g.:

    ```yaml
      trigger:
        branches:
          include: [ 'master', 'release/*' ]
        paths:
          exclude: [ '/Code/Previous' ]
        tags:
          include: [ '*' ]
    ```

## Pipeline as code

- Triggers, agent, all tasks are defined as a yaml.
  - It's version-controlled in the repository.
  - Schema:

    ```yaml
      name: string  # build numbering format
      resources:
      pipelines: [ pipelineResource ]
      containers: [ containerResource ]
      repositories: [ repositoryResource ]
      variables: # several syntaxes, see specific section
      trigger: trigger
      pr: pr
      stages: [ stage | templateReference ]
    ```

    - You can organize **steps** in **jobs** and organize jobs as **stages**.
      - If you have single stage you can define jobs `jobs: [ job | templateReference]`
      - If you have single job you can define steps: `steps: [ script | bash | pwsh | powershell | checkout | task | templateReference ]`

  - Example:

    ```yaml
      name: $(Date:yyyyMMdd)$(Rev:.r)
      variables:
      var1: value1
      jobs:
        - job: One
      steps:
        - script: echo First step!
    ```

## Agents

- You can choose Microsoft agents.
  - Maintenance & upgrades are taken care by Microsoft
  - On each run it's a new VM/container & discarded after one use
- You can also build your own agent as **self-hosted agent**.
  - You control the VM & container
  - Can run in Azure or on-prem
  - You need to create Personal Access Token with Agent Pool scope to configure your agent.
  - 💡 Good way to integrate on-prem & cloud systems

## Agent pools

- Organize agents into agent pools for easier management.
- Pools are scoped to & visible in the entire organization
- Default agent pools
  - **Default** pool: Use it to register self-hosted agents that you've set up.
  - **Azure Pipelines hosted pool** with various Windows, Linux, and macOS images.
    - Examples 📝:
      - **Ubuntu 1604**: Run jobs on a Linux based VM
      - **macOS**: Build & release on Mojave macOS
        - ❗ For builds and releases running on Microsoft-provided macOS agents, your data will be transferred to third party data centers in US or EU ([offical docs](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/devops/organizations/security/data-location?view=azure-devops)).
      - Windows:
        - **Windows 2019 with VS2019**
        - **VS2017**
        - **Hosted**: Older versions of Visual Studio installed on Windows Server 2012
        - **Hosted Windows Container**
          - Removed after March 23, 2020
      - The list here can be outdated, check the latest [from the docs](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/devops/pipelines/agents/hosted?view=azure-devops#use-a-microsoft-hosted-agent)
- 📝 [Permissions](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/devops/organizations/security/about-security-roles):
  - Organization- or collection-level:
    - ***Reader***: can view agent pool & its agents to e.g. monitor health
    - ***Service Accounts***: Can create an agent pool in a project
    - ***Administrator***: Can also register & unregister agents from an organization agent pool
  - Project-level:
    - ***Reader***: can view agent pool & its agents to e.g. monitor health
    - ***User***: Can use the pool when authoring pipelines.
    - ***Creator***: Can use the pool when authoring build or release pipelines.
    - ***Administrator***: Can manage membership for all roles of the pool, as well as view and use the pools

## Static Code Analyzer tools in Azure Pipelines

- You can run source code analyzer tools as part of your build pipeline.
- For Java based projects you have tools such as PMD, CheckStyle and FindBugs
  - See [Continuous Feedback - Static Code Analysis](./5.%20Continuous%20Feedback.md#static-code-analysis)
- In Azure Pipelines yaml file, use maven task template and simply give three parameters:
  - `checkStyleRunAnalysis: true, pmdRunAnalysis: true, findBugsRunAnalysis: true`
  - In build summary you can then see information in Code Analysis Report section
    - Analysis results are also published as an artifact.

## Environment

- Collection of resources that can be targeted by deployments from a pipeline.
  - E.g. VMs in secondary and primary site
    - You run a script in each VM to register them in an environment
- Can include Kubernetes clusters, Azure web apps, virtual machines, databases.
- E.g. Dev, Test, QA, Staging, and Production.
- E.g. following runs for each resource in the environment:

  ```yaml
    - stage: deploy
      jobs:
      - deployment: DeployWeb
          displayName: deploy Web App
          pool:
            vmImage: 'Ubuntu-latest'
          # creates an environment if it doesn't exist
          environment: 'smarthotel-dev'
          strategy:
          runOnce:
            deploy:
              steps:
                - script: echo Hello world
  ```

### Approvals

- Manually control when a stage should run using approval from user(s)
- Can be **pre-deployment**, or **post-deployment** approvals
- Defined in environment level or (legacy) release pipeline UI
- 💡 Commonly used to control deployments to production environments.
- You can assign a timeout for the approval for auto-rejection after time is out.

## Parallel Jobs

- Parallel job = One job at a time in a pipeline
  - Pipeline = collection of jobs
  - Each job consumes a **parallel job** that runs on an agent
- When there aren't enough parallel jobs available for your organization
  - the jobs are queued up and run one after the other.
- Free tier
  - Public project:
    - 10 free Microsoft-hosted parallel jobs that can run up to 360 minutes each time
    - 10 free self-hosted parallel jobs  (unlimited parallel jobs)
  - Private project:
    - 1 free Microsoft hosted parallel job, can run up to 60 minutes each time
      - Limit of 30 hours per month
    - 1 free self-hosted parallel job (unlimited parallel jobs)

## Service connections

- Allows you to connect to external and remote services to execute tasks in a job.
- Service connections are created at project scope
  - So a service connection created in one project is not visible in another project.
- Common examples:
  - ARM, Bitbucket Cloud, Chef, Docker Registry, GitHub, External Git, Jenkins, Kubernetes, npm, SSH, Subversion, Visual Studio App Center...
  - **Generic service connection** to any other type of service or application
    - Consists of "Connection Name", "Server URL", "User name" and "Password/Token Key" parameters
- You can secure a service connection in three different levels of permissions:
  1. **User**: Creator, Reader, User, Administrator
  2. **Pipeline**: control which YAML pipelines are authorized to use this service connection
  3. **Project**: allows cross project sharing of service connections
- You can create custom service connections using **service endpoints**
  - Consists of "Service name", "Description", "Server URL", "Certificates or tokens", "User names" and "passwords"
  - See [official docs](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/devops/extend/develop/service-endpoints?view=azure-devops) for more information.

## Integrate with third party

- [Integrate with ServiceNow](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/devops/pipelines/release/approvals/servicenow?view=azure-devops)
  - Steps:
    - Install ServiceNow extension on Azure DevOps
    - Install Azure DevOps application on ServiceNow
  - Allows you to:
    - Use ServiceNow gates
    - Monitor change management process from releases
    - Keep ServiceNow change requests updated with the deployment result
- [Microsoft Teams](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/devops/pipelines/integrations/microsoft-teams?view=azure-devops) & [Slack](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/devops/pipelines/integrations/slack?view=azure-devops): Install Azure Pipelines app
- [Jenkins through Service Connection, PAT from Jenkins and Team Foundation Server plugin](./7.3.%20Jenkins.md)
