# Azure Repos

- Supports **git**, **TFVC**
  - TFVC = Team Foundation Version Control
    - branches = paths
    - more granular permissions down to file level
- In Azure DevOps we have **Azure Repos**
  - It comes with default repository for the project
- You can import repositories form GitHub, TFVC..
- You can create PRs in either direction: from fork to upstream, or upstream to fork.
  - Most common = From fork to upstream
  - The destination repository's permissions, policies, builds, and work items will apply to the PR.

## Service connections

- Helps you to connect to external and remote services to execute tasks in a job.
  - e.g. connect to Microsoft Azure subscription, to services you install on remote computers.
- Created at project scope
- Permissions
  - User: Creator, Reader, User, Administrator roles
  - Pipeline: Which pipelines can access
  - Project permissions: which other projects can access the project (only its project scope by default)

## Permissions

- Azure Repos supports Git and Team Foundation
  - In Team Foundation Version Control, you can set permissions at the file level.
  - Git is more popular and have better compatibility with IDE's
- You can grant permissions for Azure repositories at both the repository an the branch level.

### Groups

- **Reader**: Clone, fetch, explore contents of a repository. Can also create, comment on, vote and contribute to pull requests.
- **Contributor & Build Admins**: Contribute to a repository, create branches, create tags, manage notes.
- **Project Admins**: Create, delete and rename repositories.
- You can modify permissions in each group.

### Branch policies

- ***Require minimum number of reviewers*** for pull requests
- ***Check for linked work items***: Enforce traceability to check for linked work items on PR's
- ***Check for comment resolution***: Check that all comments have been resolved on PR's
- ***Enforce a merge strategy***
  - ***No fast-forward merge***: merges the commit history of the source branch when the pull request closes and creates a merge commit in the target branch.
  - ***Squash merge***: Complete all pull requests with a squash merge
- ***Build validation*** through build policies
  - It's a pre-merging policy, only if build success then PR will be able to merged
  - You link to a build pipeline that'll be triggered
- ***Require approval from additional services*** using PR Status API
- ***Automatically include code reviewers*** for specific directories and files in your repo
- ***Bypass policies***: You can assign following to users / groups when
  - completing pull requests
  - or pushing

### Branch locks

- Block updates to a Git branch by preventing
  - Other users from changing the existing commit history
  - Any new commits from being added to the branch by others
- 💡 Use with [branch policies](#branch-policies) and pull requests to ensure no changes are being done without review/approval
- Locks can be removed by
  - The user who locked the branch
  - User with ["Remove Other's Lock permissions"](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/devops/repos/git/set-git-repository-permissions?view=azure-devops#git-repository)
- 👀 Read more: [Microsoft Docs](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/devops/repos/git/lock-branches)

## Repository settings

- Validates commit information against given patterns or limits
- Can be found on portal: "Project settings -> Repositories"
- Include
  - Commit author email validation
  - File path validation
  - Case enforcement by blocking that change name casing on paths/branches/tags
  - Reserved names by blocking reserved names/incompatible characters
  - Maximum path length

## Authenticating with Git

- You can authenticate using:
  - [SSH](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/devops/repos/git/use-ssh-keys-to-authenticate)
    - SSH authentication can be disabled on organization level with [organization settings](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/devops/organizations/settings/about-settings?view=azure-devops#user-settings)
  - [Git Credential Managers](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/devops/repos/git/set-up-credential-managers?view=azure-devops)
    - 💡 Recommended
    - Supports MFA
  - Personal Access Token (PAT)
    - Clone using `git clone https://anything:{yourPAT}@dev.azure.com/yourOrgName/yourProjectName/_git/yourRepoName`
    - You can also save your PAT in Git Credential Managers
