# Cognitive Services

- Set of APIs, SDKs and services available to developers to make their applications more intelligent, engaging and discoverable.
- Expands on Microsofts machine learning APIs and enables developers to easily add intelligent features *– such as emotion and video detection; facial, speech and vision recognition; and speech and language understanding –* into their applications.
- E.g.
  - ***Agent***: Cortana
  - ***Applications***: Microsoft 365, Dynamics 365, SwiftKey, Pix, Customer Service and Support
  - ***Services***: Bot Framework, Cognitive Services, Cortana Intelligence, Cognitive Toolkit
  - ***Infrastructure***: Azure Machine Learning, Azure N Series, FPGA

## Bing APIs

- **Bing Web Search**
  - Similar to `Bing.com/search`
  - The results include Web pages and may also include images, videos, and more.
- **Bing Image Search**
  - Similar to `Bing.com/images`
  - Returns images
- **Bing Autosuggest**
  - Lets you send a partial search query term to Bing and get back a list of suggested queries that other users have searched on.

## LUIS

- **Intent detection**: Receive user input in natural language and extract meaning from it.
  - You can start with a prebuilt domain model, build your own domain specific model, or blend pieces of a prebuilt domain with your own custom information
- Once the intentions are identified (e.g. *Book Flight* or *Contact Help Desk*), you supply example phrases called utterances for the intents. Then you label the utterances with any specific details you want LUIS to pull out of the utterance.
- **Flow** : Create your own LU model => Train by providing examples => Deploy to an HTTP endpoint and activate on any device => Maintain model

### Intents

- Purpose or goal expressed in a user's input.
- E.g. booking a flight, paying a bill, or finding a news article.
- You define and name intents that correspond to these actions.

### Utterances

- An utterance is text input from the user that your app needs to understand.
- E.g. "Book a ticket to Paris", or a fragment of a sentence, like "Booking" or "Paris flight."
  - 💡 Utterances aren't always well-formed, and there can be many utterance variations for a particular intent.

### Entities

- An entity represents detailed information that is relevant in the utterance.
- E.g. in the utterance *"Book a ticket to Paris."*, "Paris" is a location.
- By recognizing and labeling the entities that are mentioned in the user's utterance, LUIS helps you choose the specific action to take to answer a user's request.

## Cognitive APIs

- **Text Analytics API**: Natural language processing over raw text.
  - Sentiment analysis
  - Key phrase extraction
  - Language detection
- **Speaker Recognition API**: algorithms for speaker verification and speaker identification.
- **Content Moderator API**: tracks, flags, assesses, and filters out offensive and unwanted content that creates risk for applications.
- **Face API**
  - Face verification, finding similar faces, face grouping, and person identification.
  - Image can be specified by file in bytes or valid URL.
  - The API returns a face rectangle (left, top, width and height) indicating the face location in the image is returned along with each detected face.
  - Optionally, face detection extracts a series of face related attributes such as pose, gender, age, head pose, facial hair and glasses.
  - Face recognition is widely used in many scenarios including security, natural user interface, image content analysis and management, mobile apps, and robotics.
