# Bots

## Bot services

- PaaS
- Provides an integrated environment that is purpose-built for bot development, enabling you to build, connect, test, deploy, and manage intelligent bots from one place.
- You can write a bot, connect, test, deploy, and manage it from your web browser with no separate editor or source control required.
  - For simple bots, you may not need to write code at all.
- The code glues in an HTTP REST endpoint the following:
  - Platform: Platform Services
  - AI: Intelligent Tools
  - SDK: Bot Framework SDK

### Bot services key concepts

- **Multiple language support**
  - Leverages **Bot Framework SDK** with support for .NET and Node.js.
- **Bot templates**
  - E.g.:
    - Forms bot for collecting user input
    - a Language understanding bot that leverages LUIS to understand user intent
    - a QnA bot to handle FAQs
    - a Proactive bot that alerts users of events.
- **Bring your own dependencies**: Support NuGet and NPM.
- **Flexible development options**
  - Publish from Visual Studio
  - Code bot right in the Azure portal
  - Set up continuous integration and deploy the bot through GitHub, Visual Studio Team Services, and other supported development tools.
- **Connect to channels**
  - Bot Service supports popular channels for connecting your bots and the people that use them.
  - E.g. Skype, Facebook, Teams, Slack, SMS, and others.
- **Tools and services**
  - **Bot Framework Emulator**: Allows to test bots.
  - **Channel Inspector**: Allows to preview bots on different channels with the .
- **Open source**
  - The Bot Builder SDK is open-source and available on [GitHub](https://github.com/microsoft/botbuilder-dotnet).

## QnA Maker

- Trains AI to respond to user's questions in a more natural, conversational way.
- Provides a GUI that allows non-developers to train, manage, and use the service for a wide range of solutions.
- Extracts a knowledge base from two types of input: FAQ pages (web pages or documents) and product manuals (PDF).
  - Once extracted, the QnA Maker service creates a **knowledge base** and bot using the knowledge bas
- Handles indexing and ranking
- It can be consumed through REST API
- Over time, the knowledge base can be updated, retrained, and republished to meet the morphing needs to a user-facing web application.
