# Storage Account

- Stores & manages storage services.
  - 💡 Managed Disks for Virtual Machine disk storage does not need a storage account.
- Types

  | **Type of Account** | **Services Supported** | **Types of Blobs supported** |
  | --- | --- | --- |
  | General Purpose Standard | Blob, File, Queue services | Block blobs, Page blobs and Append blobs |
  | General Purpose Premium | Blob service | Page blobs |
  | Blob Storage (hot and cool access tiers) | Blob service | Block blobs and Append blobs |

## Storage account security

- Access is controlled by **Storage Account Keys**
  - There are primary and secondary to allow for key refreshes whilst maintaining access.
  - If you have the key, you have access to the account and all the data in the account.

### Container Security

- Provided for blob storage at the time of creation; the container can be ***public***, ***private*** or ***read-only***.
  - Public read access policy
    - Controls what data is available anonymously for your container
    - Setting can be *Container*, *Blob* or *Off*.

    | Setting | Individual blobs and their properties can be accessed | Blobs can be enumerated |
    | ----- | -------------- | ------------------- |
    | Container | ✔️ | ✔️ |
    | Blob | ✔️ | ❌ |
    | Off | ❌ | ❌ |

#### Azure AD RBAC

- 💡 Use for:
  - Management functions on Storage Account
  - Storage account keys

#### Shared Access Signatures

- A URI that grants restricted access rights to containers, blobs, queues,and tables.
- For delegations, not resources.
- Access is for specified specified period of time, with a specified set of permissions.
- All information is described in URI.
  - E.g. GET `https://[account].blob.core.windows.net/pictures/profile.jpg?sv=2012-02-12&st=2009-02-09&se=2009-02-10&sr=c&sp=r&si=YWJjZGVmZw%3d%3d&sig=dD80ihBh5jfNpymO5Hg1IdiJIEvHcJpCMiCMnN%2fRnbI%3d`
    - The signature is using version 2012-02-12 of the storage API; it allows read access is beginning from 02/09/09 to 02/10/09 to the container.
- You can grant following:
  - ***Content***: Reading and writing page or block blob content, block lists, properties, and metadata
  - ***Deleting***:  Deleting, leasing, and creating a snapshot of a blob
  - ***Listing***: Listing the blobs within a container
  - ***CRUD***
    - Adding, removing, updating, and deleting queue messages
    - Querying, adding, updating, deleting, and upserting table entities
  - ***Metadata***: Getting queue metadata, including the message count
  - ***Copying***: Copying to a blob from another blob within the same account

#### Shared Access Policies

- A shared access policy adds the ability to revoke, expire or extend access.
- Settings defined in a server-stored policy can be changed and are reflected in the token without requiring a new token to be issued, but settings defined in the token itself cannot be changed without issuing a new token.
- This approach also makes it possible to revoke a valid SAS token before it has expired.
  - To revoke a stored access policy, you can either delete it or rename it by changing the signed identifier.
- ❗ A maximum of five access policies may be set on a container, table, or queue at any given time.

## Storage account replication

- **Locally redundant storage (LRS)**
  - Replicated three times across two to three facilities, either within a single region or across two regions
  - Do not protect from the failure of a single facility.
- **Zone-redundant storage (ZRS)**
  - Replicated three times across two to three facilities, either within a single region or across two regions.
- **Geo-redundant storage (GRS)**
  - Replicated three times within the primary region, and is also replicated three times in a secondary region hundreds of miles away from the primary region.
  - Replicates asynchronously
    - Means replica is eventually consistent and could possibly have older data if you access the replica before the replication
- **Read access geo-redundant storage (RA-GRS)**
  - Provides read-only access to primary location on top of GRS.

    | **Replication** | **LRS** | **ZRS** | **GRS** | **RA-GRS** |
    | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
    | Data stored in multiple datacenters | No | Yes | Yes | Yes |
    | Data read from secondary & primary location | No | No | No | Yes |
    | No of copies of data stored in separate nodes | 3 | 3 | 6 | 6 |
