# Data Analysis

## Azure Analysis Services

- PaaS
- Integrated with Azure data platform services.
- You can mashup and combine data from multiple sources, define metrics, and secure your data in a single, trusted semantic data model.
- Handles
  - Security
  - In-memory cache
  - Data modeling
  - Lifecycle management
  - Business logic & metrics
- Compatible with many features already in *SQL Server Analysis Services Enterprise Edition*
  - Supports tabular models at the 1200 and 1400 compatibility levels
  - Partitions, row-level security, bi-directional relationships, and translations are all supported.
  - In-memory and DirectQuery modes are also available for fast queries over massive and complex datasets.

### Integrations

- Data Sources
  - **Cloud**: E.g. SQL Database, Azure Synapse Analytics, Data Lake, HDInsights/Spark…
  - **On-premises*:* E.g. SQL Server / Oracle…
- Client tools
  - **Cloud**: Power BI
  - **On-premises**: Third-Party. Power BI Desktop. Excel

### Tabular Object Model (TOM)

- Client library for SQL to describe model objects for developers.
- Exposed in JSON through the Tabular Model Scripting Language (TMSL) and the AMO data definition language.
  - TOM is built on AMO.
    - ***Analysis Management Objects (AMO)*** is a library of programmatically accessed objects that enables an application to manage an Analysis Services instance.
    - E.g. AMO has data mining classes
- Has classes for models, relationship, roles, annotations, cultures etc. to manage SQL analysis objects.
- Structured in a tabular form.
- Arranges data elements in vertical columns and horizontal rows. Each cell is formed by the intersection of a column and row.

## HDInsight

- Common use:
  1. Create HDInsight
  2. Schedule Jobs
  3. Delete HDInsight Cluster
- Azure distribution of Apache Hadoop components
  - Framework for processing and analysis of big data sets on clusters.
  - Including Apache Hive, HBase, Spark, Kafka, Storm, R and many others.
    - Apache Spark is an open-source parallel processing framework that supports in-memory processing to boost the performance of big-data analytic applications.
- Built on top of Azure Storage

## Azure Data Catalog

- A single, central place for all of an organization's users to contribute their knowledge and build a community and culture of data.
  - It includes a crowdsourcing model of metadata and annotations.
    - Descriptive metadata supplements the structural metadata (such as column names and data types) that's registered from the data source.
  - The data remains in its existing location, but a copy of its metadata is added to Data Catalog, along with a reference to the data-source location.
  - The metadata is also indexed to make each data source easily discoverable via search and understandable to the users who discover it.
- Any user (analyst, data scientist, or developer) can discover, understand, and consume data sources.
  - Users can contribute to the catalog by tagging, documenting, and annotating data sources that have already been registered.
  - They can also register new data sources, which can then be discovered, understood, and consumed by the community of catalog users.
