# Deploying ARM templates

## Problem definition

- Authoring and deployment of ARM templates can be hard:
  - Become very complex in a short amount of time.
  - Difficult to ensure that Microsoft best practices for Azure infrastructure are reflected in every template authored by your team.
- Development of your templates follows a pattern:
  - E.g.:
    1. JSON object for a virtual network
    2. JSON object for virtual machines that are deployed into the virtual network.
    3. JSON object for a network security group to secure the virtual network.
    4. JSON object for a load balancer to distribute incoming requests to the virtual machines
- Problem:
  - Great deal of knowledge about Azure Resource Manager and the resources themselves.
  - Difficulty maintaining your templates because any modification can lead to unforeseen issues.

## Azure Building Blocks

- Command line tool and set of ARM templates.
  - Reflect best practices as prescribed by the *Patterns & Practices team* at Microsoft.
- Designed to simplify deployment of Azure resources.
- Flow:
  1. Specify settings for Azure resources using the Building Blocks JSON schema
     - You can either specify your resources settings in one large file or several small files.
     - Supports: • Virtual Networks • Virtual Machines (including load balancers) • Virtual Machine Extensions • Route Tables • Network Security Groups • Virtual Network Gateways • Virtual Network Connection
  2. Command line tool merges these settings with best practice defaults (from GitHub templates) to produce a set of parameter files
  3. The command line tool deploys these parameter files using a set of pre-built Azure Resource Manager templates

### Deploying resources using building blocks

1. Install **`azbb*`** command line tool and the Azure CLI.
2. **Create building blocks**
   - Create a JSON file with a `buildingBlocks` parameter containing an array of resources that you wish to deploy.
     - Each resource within that JSON array can have certain options configured.
     - E.g. Virtual Network resource => `addressPrefix_`, `subnets_` and `name`.
     - Any options you do not specify are set using the default options specified in the building blocks repository.
     - E.g. deploying a Virtual Network includes following properties:
       - `type` :identify the type of building block. E.g. VirtualNetwork.
       - `name` : Unique name of the resource
       - `addressPrefixes` : Array of address ranges in CIDR notation.
         - E.g.: `"addressPrefixes": [ "10.0.0.0/16", "11.0.0.0/16" ]`
       - `subnets` :ian array—we can specify up to 1,000 subnets for each VNet.
3. **Create a settings file**
   - Run the **azbb** command line tool to parse your settings and combine it with the default settings from the building blocks repository
     - The **azbb** command line tool will output an ARM template parameters file,
   - Empty settings file:

     ```json
      {
        "$schema": "https://raw.githubusercontent.com/mspnp/template-building-blocks/master/schemas/buildingBlocks.json",
        "contentVersion": "1.0.0.0",
        "parameters" : { "buildingBlocks": { "value": [ {} ] } }
      }
     ```

   - E.g. deploying a Virtual Network

     ```json
        {
          "$schema": "https://raw.githubusercontent.com/mspnp/template-building-blocks/master/schemas/buildingBlocks.json",
          "contentVersion": "1.0.0.0",
          "parameters": {
            "buildingBlocks": {
              "value": [
                {
                  "type": "VirtualNetwork",
                  "settings": [
                    {
                      "name": "msft-hub-vnet",
                      "addressPrefixes": [
                        "10.0.0.0/16"
                      ],
                      "subnets": [
                        {
                          "name": "firewall",
                          "addressPrefix": "10.0.1.0/24"
                        }
                      ]
                    }
                  ]
                }
              ]
            }
          }
        }
     ```

4. **Deploy**
   - **azbb** tool will use the Azure CLI (version 2.0) to deploy the master ARM template from the building blocks repository using the parameters file that was generated.
     - The Azure deployment will create a collection of resources within an Azure Resource Group.
       - It'll have historical deployment information
         - You can go back and view the template and parameters used by the building blocks command line tool to deploy your resources.
   - Command:
     - `azbb -g <new or existing resource group> -s <subscription ID> -l <region> -p <path to your settings file> --deploy`
