# Securing ARM templates

## Azure Key Vault

- Create, manage and import **secrets**, **keys**, and **certificates** for applications, services and users.
- When deploying resources using Arm templates and automating that deployment, it is best practice to use a **Service Principal**.
  - In on-prem AD it was called: Active Directory Service Account
- The premium tier allows storage of these secrets in a Hardware Security Module, a physical device to contain all your secrets.
- Flow:
  - Administrator creates & manages vaults and keys.
    - Can be created by any contributor/owner.
  - Sends URIs to developers.
  - Security administrators uses usage logging for keys.
- Dev/test keys can be migrated to production use at deployment.
  - **Key Vault Use in ARM Templates**
    - Embedding credentials and passwords inside a template are unwise.
    - To further secure the deployment, it is advised to create an Azure Service Principal.
    - With key vaults the value is never exposed because you only reference its key vault ID.
    - Use in ARM templates
      1. Set the enabledForTemplateDeployment property to true when you create the Key Vault.
      2. Create secret to be used in template
      3. Ensure template can access Key vault
         - Ensure the service principal, user or template has the **Microsoft.KeyVault/vaults/deploy/action** permission for the correct Key Vault
         - The Contributor built-in role already has this permission.
      4. Reference the secret using a static ID in the template parameter file.
      - ❗ Challenge: Sometimes the Key Vault secret will change from deployment to deployment
        - It this requires the use of a dynamic ID reference.
        - It cannot go in the parameter file.
        - 💡 Solution: Nested template where key is also deployed.
