# Managed Server Applications in Azure

- Infrastructure-Backed Platform-as-a-Service (IaaS) architecture that can be used when automatic management of infrastructure is required.
- Every Microsoft Azure PaaS service is already hosted on Azure IaaS.
- Three services available:
  1. **App Service Environments** provides a dedication scalable home for Azure Web Apps.
  2. **Azure Service Fabric** provides a cluster of VMs to host containers and microservices for those applications.
  3. **Azure Container Service** provides open source tools to orchestrate containers based on Docker Swarm, Mesosphere and Kubernetes clusters

## App Service Environments

- App Services separate many of the hosting and management concerns for your web application.
- You want sometimes more control:
  - E.g. make sure that all of the virtual machines hosting your web applications do not allow any outbound requests. (PCI compliance)
- Allows you to configure network access and isolation for your applications.
- Allows you to scale using pools of instances far beyond the limits of a regular App Service plan instance
- Instances are dedicated to your application alone.
- Gives you more control but retain: ***automatic scaling***, ***instance management***, and ***load balancing***
- Same concepts & paradigms as Virtual Machines:
  - Environments are created within a subnet in an Azure Virtual Network
  - You can use Network Security Groups to restrict network communications to the subnet where the Environment resides.
  - You can also use a protected connection to connect your Virtual Network to corporate resources
- Versions
  - **V1**: Supports both classic and Resource Manager Virtual Networks
  - **V2**: Only resource Manager resources.
    - Automates most of the scaling, creation, and maintenance which v1 requires to be carried out manually.

## Azure Service Fabric

- Solution making it simple to package, deploy, and manage scalable and reliable containers and microservices.
- Assists with the developing and managing cloud native applications.
- Intended for scalable container-based applications.
- Microservice based applications
  - Creates a cluster of VMs that runs containers per stateful or stateless microservice.
  - Assists with provisioning, deploying, monitoring and managing in fast and efficient, automated fashion.
  - Powers Service many Microsoft services today, including *Azure SQL Database*, *Azure Cosmos DB*, *Cortana*, *Microsoft Power BI*, *Microsoft Intune*, *Azure Event Hubs*, *Azure IoT Hub*, *Dynamics 365*, *Skype for Business* and many core Azure services.

### Application lifecycle management

- Supports the application lifecycle and CI/CD of cloud applications including containers.
- Simple workflows to provision, deploy, patch, and monitor applications
- Integrating with CI/CD tools such as Visual Studio Team Services, Jenkins, and Octopus Deploy.
- It hosts microservices inside containers that are deployed and activated across the Service Fabric cluster.¨
  - **Service fabric cluster**
    - Node type count: 1 to 3
      - Per node, durability tiers: Bronze, Silver, Gold.

### Service Fabric Analytics

- Requires Azure Diagnostics
- Can be added from marketplace
  - Get insight into your Service Fabric framework
  - Get insight into the performance of your Service Fabric applications and micro-services
  - View events from your applications and micro-services
  - E.g. `StatefulRunAsyncCancellation`, `SatefulRunAsyncFailure`

## Azure Container Service

- Simplifies processes associated with creating, configuring, and managing virtual machines.
- Supports three orchestration services:
  1. Docker Swarm
  2. Mesosphere DC/OS
  3. Kubernetes
- You are only charged for these VMs, Storage and networking resources actually used.
- Contains [Azure Kubernetes Service](#azure-kubernetes-service)

### Azure Kubernetes Service

- Azure manages health, maintenance, and monitoring.
- Easy scaling, automatic version upgrades, and self-healing master nodes.
- Can be deployed into VNet
- **Application routing**: get a public DNS endpoint Azure DNS that has direct ingress into Kubernetes cluster into the container that's providing the front-end of that application.
- **Container insights**: Logs/metrics from containers
- Access is provided to the Kubernetes API endpoints.
  - There is no SSH access to the AKS cluster.
- Orchestration:
  - Multiple copies of each containers for high availability and scalability.
  - Allows deploying container images across a set of VMs.
  - Configures networking
  - Service discovery betwen them.
  - Doing health monitoring on the containers.
- **[Virtual Kubelet](https://github.com/virtual-kubelet/virtual-kubelet)**: Microsoft project that allows Azure Container Instances to run on AKS.

## Azure Container Instance

- Only pay while it's building
- Do not pay when it's done
