# Migration strategies

## On-premises lift and shift

- Benefits of pay as you go computing
- No need to rewrite application code to fit a cloud application pattern.

### Cloud Maturity

1. **On-premises** monolithic architecture
2. **Lift and shift**: No re-architect, no code changes
   - Cloud infrastructure-ready monolithic architecture
   - Cloud DevOps ready monolithic architecture
3. **Architected for the cloud**, might require new code
   - Cloud optimized full PaaS & cloud-native with monolithic and microservices architectures.

### Azure Migrate services

- Discovery and assessment tool
- Assesses suitability for migration and ensures that sizing is correct for the performance of the VM
- Estimates of the cost of running an VM in Azure
- Visualize dependencies of a specific VM or for all VMs in a group
- ❗ Limitations
  - Provides assessment for only VMWare VMs
    - If you want to assess Hyper-VMs and physical servers, use the **Azure Site Recovery Deployment Planner** for Hyper-V, and our partner tools for physical machines.
  - Only supports managed disks for migration assessment.
  - All regions are not supported

## Classic (Azure Service Manager) migration to ARM

- From Azure Service Manager (ASM) model to Azure Resource Manager (ARM) deployment.
- Supported services: • Virtual Machines • Availability Sets • Cloud Services • Storage Accounts • Virtual Networks • VPN Gateways • Express Route gateways • Network Security Groups • Route Tables • Reserved IPs

## Cloud to Platform-as-a-Service (PaaS)

- From cloud services to a PaaS solution
- Necessary to consider the difference between VMs, workloads, and applications in each model.

### Azure Cloud Services

- Platform as a service (PaaS) in Classic Model (not ARM)
- A cloud service deploys applications as VMs; code is connected to a VM instance which might be a Web role or a worker role
  - **Web role**: Automatically deploys and hosts your app through IIS.
  - **Worker role**: Does not use IIS, and runs your app standalone

#### Scaling and management

- To scale the application, more VMs are deployed.
- You don't create virtual machines. Instead, you provide a XML configuration file that tells Azure how many of each you'd like, such as "three web role instances" and "two worker role instances."
- You still choose what size those backing VMs should be.

#### The deployment package

- Contains the **web role** and **worker role** definition
- Specifies the instance count for each role; an instance is a VM hosting that role.

#### Migrating a cloud service Service Fabric

- Cloud Services with **Worker Role**s can be migrated to Service Fabric Cluster with Stateless Service
- Migrating a cloud service to Service Fabric switches to deploying applications to VMs that are already running Service Fabric either on Windows or Linux.
- The applications or services that are deployed are entirely unrelated to the VM infrastructure.
- The service fabric application platform hides the VM layer from the application.

##### Handling dependencies

- A cloud service application will typically have external dependencies.
  - E.g. services that manage the data and state of an application and the method of communicating between web and worker roles.
    - Such as Azure Redis, Storage Queue, Service Bus.
- A Service fabric application can also rely on the same external service dependencies.
- The quickest and easiest way to migrate a Cloud Service application to service fabric:
  - Convert the Web roles and worker roles to stateless services whilst keeping the architecture the same.
- If the aim is to remove the external dependencies and take full advantage of the ability to unify deployment, management and upgrade models, then state-full services would be required which will mean full code and application rewrites.
