# App Services

## SKUs

- **Basic Tier**
  - Scaling is manual
- **Standard or upper service tiers**
  - Scaling is automatic
  - ❗ Standard tier allows to scale up to 10 instances.
    - 💡 If you still need more instances you can go to the **Isolated tier** where you can scale up to 100 instances
- 💡 Use **Standard** or **Premium** tiers in order to support autoscale and SSL.

## Authorization types

- **Allow all requests**
  - Use your own authentication and authorization code.
- **Allow only authenticated requests**
  - User is challenged or returned 401
- **Allow Anonymous requests**
  - Handles authentication & authorization
  - Defers authorization decisions to your application code

## App Types

### Web Apps

- PaaS offering to host web applications.
- Fully managed and easily configurable for e.g. such as AlwaysOn, custom domains, and autoscale.
- Supports .NET, Java, PHP, Node.js, or Python
- **Deploy**: Git, Kudu, Microsoft Visual Studio through FTP or Web Deploy protocol.
- **Autoscale**
  - Creates multiple instances of the Web App
  - Automatically load balanced to meet potentially demands

#### Web app containers

- Linux variant can host docker containers directly using a Web App.
- Docker containers can be sourced from Docker Hub, Azure Container Registry or GitHub.
- Can be deployed manually, or deployed in a streamlined continuous integration process using Docker Hub or GitHub.

### API apps

- Specialized version of Web Apps.
- Support for developing, hosting and securing your custom APIs in the context of App.
- It can run either
  - custom code or
  - pre-built software to connect to existing popular SaaS solutions through Logic App.
- Integrates seamlessly with API Management.
- Easy authentication using service-to-service or CORS.

### Mobile Apps

- Mobile App endpoints are REST APIs.
- Provides capabilities of:
  - **Single sign on**
    - From list of Azure AD.
  - **Offline sync**
    - Work offline when connectivity is not available, and synchronize with your enterprise backend systems when devices comes back online.
    - Data sources include including • SQL • Table Storage • Mongo • Document DB • any SaaS API including Microsoft 365 apps, Salesforce, Dynamics, or on-premises databases.
  - **Push notifications**
    - Allows you to hook Notification Hubs to any existing app backend.
  - **Auto scaling**
- Client SDKs are available to connect mobile app to a Mobile App instance for its backend data.
  - Supported for: • Xamarin Android/IOS, • Android Native, • IOS Native, • Windows Store, • Windows Phone, • .NET, • HTML
