# Authoring Serverless Applications in Azure

## Azure Functions

- Implemented using the existing code and base functionality for **Azure WebJobs**.
- Created using one of two models:
  - **App Service**
    - Functions exist as a kind of app within an App Service Plan.
  - **Consumption**
    - Allows you to pay for Function Apps based on execution time as opposed to having a dedicated App Service Plan.
    - Billed at a rate specific to Gigabyte Seconds after a specific free monthly allocation threshold has been met.
- Share a 3lot of functionality with other App types such as Web Apps.
  - E.g. • App Settings, • Connection Strings, • AlwaysOn • Continuos Deployment.
  - 💡 📝 Enable AlwaysOn for Function App to respond to requests as quickly as possible.

### Authorization

- **Anonymous**: No API key is required.
- **Function**: A function-specific API key is required.
- **Admin**: The master key is required.

### Triggers

- A **Trigger** is any event that invokes an Azure Function.
- A function can have triggers for many different scenarios including: • Creation of Blobs • Changes to data in Cosmos DB • External File or Table changes • HTTP requests • OneDrive or Excel files • E-mail messages • Mobile Apps • SendGrid e-mails • Twilio Text Messages
- A function can also be triggered by existing messaging services including: • Service Bus • Storage Queues • Logic Apps • Event Grid • Event Hubs • Webhooks

## Integration

### API Management

- Provides developer engagement, business insights, analytics, security and protection.
- **Flow**
  - Administrators create APIs.
    - Each API consists of one or more operations, and each API can be added to one or more products.
      - A **product** is segmentation/grouping of APIs.
        - Access policies can be enforced.
        - Defines APIs (endpoints)
  - **Subscribers**
    - Developers/B2B partners subscribe to a product that contains that API,
    - They call the APIs operation, subject to any usage policies that may be in effect.
- **Portals**
  - **Publisher portal:** Admin portal.
    - Configures APIs & products & subscribers.
  - **Developer portal:** Partners can test the services.
- **Example**
  | API | Products | Subscribers |
  | --- | --- | --- |
  | • `DEVICEINFO` • `BUILDINFO` • `ORDERS` • `DELIVERYORDER` • `SHIPMENT` • `MILESTONES` • `RETURNDEVICE` | • DCServicesExternal • DCServicesInternal • MakeInternal • MakeExternal • ReturnsInternal • ReturnsExternal | • Arvato • Ups • Fedex • Walmart • Amazon  |

### Logic Apps

- Workflows that can connect various components of your application together using minimal or no-code.
- Designed using JSON.
- Logic Apps can integrate with
  - Existing services using built-in connectors such as SQL Server • OneDrive • Dropbox • Twilio • SendGrid • Cosmos DB • Event Grid • Event Hubs • Storage Blobs, Queues and Tables • Mobile Apps
  - custom APIs that are deployed as API Apps in your subscription.
- The main components of a Logic App are as follows:
  - **Workflow**: The business process described as a series of steps, in an acyclic graph (loops are not supported).
  - **Triggers**: The step that starts a new workflow instance.
  - **Actions**: A step in a workflow, typically a Connector or a custom API App.
  - **Connector**: A special case of API App ready made to integrate a specific service (e.g., Twitter) or data source (e.g., SQL Server).
- E.g. Azure Service Bus Connector to queue processing that you will run on HDInsight against some big data, and then send the result via an SMS message using the Twilio connector.

### Traffic Manager

- Automatically fails over if the primary region becomes unavailable.
  - **Multi-region architecture / model**
    - Provides a higher availability of your applications.
    - 💡📝 Have paired region as secondary region as paired regions are prioritized during outage.
- Supports different routing algorithms
  - E.g. priority routing (formerly called failover routing)
    - All requests are sent to prioritized endpoint until it's unhealthy.
- E.g. use SQL database geo-replication to the standby region.
  - **Active region**: Where application with SQL lies.
  - **Standby region**: Where application exists and SQL is replicated.
