# Azure VM Scale Sets

- Allows a virtual machine to deploy [up to 1000](#large-vm-scale-sets) times in the same subnet.
- Allow accurate auto-scaling
- Provides high degree of control like IaaS, but manages networking/storage/compute/load balancing like PaaS.
- Requires no pre-provisioning, automatically configures and manages:
  - Network
  - Load balancer
  - Network Address Translation (NAT)
- Handles resource creations, dependencies and configurations.

## Virtual Machines vs. Virtual Machine Scale Sets

| Functionality | Scale set   |  VM  |
| ------------- | :-----------: | :---: |
| Azure Autocale  | 👍 | 👎 |
| Availability zones | 👍 | 👍 |
| Reimaging  | 👍 | 👎 |
| Overprovisioning | 👍 Automatically increase reliability and faster deployment | 👎 Custom code is required |
| Upgrade policy | 👍 Can upgrade all VMs in scale | 👎 Must be orchestrated |
| Attach data disks | 👍 Applies to all instances in data sets | 👍 |
| Attach non-empty data disks | 👎  | 👍 |
| Snapshot  | 👎 | 👍 |
| Capture image | 👎 | 👍 |
| Migrate to use managed disks | 👎 | 👍 |
| Assign public IP addresses | 👎 Requires load balancer | 👍 Possible on NIC |

## Connecting to a VM Scale Set instance VM

- Done by accessing Load balancer inbound NAT rules and using the correct IP address and custom port.
- You can see & set it in Load Balancer -> Inbound NAT Rules.

## Continuous Delivery in VMSS

- By default, the pipeline builds code, and updates VM scale set with the latest version of your application.
- Can be done by two ways:
  1. **Immutable Deployment**
     - Create a custom image that already contains the OS and application in a single VHD.
     - **Advantages**
       - Predictability
         - Any new versions of the application can be tested on a similar VM Scale set and then deployed directly into the production instances without any downtime.
       - Easy to scale
       - Easy to roll-back
       - Faster to scale (no code to install on each VM as it is deployed)
       - Can use toolset from Visual Studio Team Services
  2. Use of VM extensions to install software to each instance at deployment time.
     - Customs script VM extension to install/update your application on VM scale set

## Large VM Scale Sets

- ❗ Scale sets created from Azure Marketplace images can scale up to 1,000 VMs.
- ❗ Scale sets created from custom images can scale up to 300 VMs.
- Layer-7 load balancing with the Azure Application Gateway is supported for all scale sets.
- Scale sets are defined with a single subnet:
  - 💡 Ensure subnet is large enough to handle all potential VM instances.

### Large scale set: can scale beyond 1000 VMs

- Requires `singlePlacementGroup = false` property setting.
  - Layer-4 load balancing with scale sets composed of multiple placement groups requires Azure Load Balancer Standard SKU.
  - [**Fault Domains** and **Update Domains**](./5.2.%20VM%20Availability%20(SLA,%20Availability%20Sets,%20Availability%20Zones).md#update-and-fault-domains) relate to a single placement group, to maintain high availability ensure there are at least two VM instances in each Fault Domain and Update Domain.
- ❗Large scale sets require Azure Managed Disks.
- Ensure your compute limits are high enough, the requirement for compute cores will prevent a successful deployment if not.
