# Hybrid Cloud

## Azure AD

- In its basic form, it's a free service that provides the ability for Single Sign-On into cloud applications.
- Allows connection with
  - consumers (**Azure AD B2C**)
  - business partners (**Azure AD B2B**) without deploying complex infrastructure or federation.

### Azure AD Connect

- Provides the ability to integrate on-premises directories with Azure AD.
- Provide single sign-on to cloud applications such as Microsoft 365, Azure and other SaaS applications.

### Azure AD Hybrid solutions

- Azure AD Connect provides the choice of:
  - **1. Password Synchronization only** , the ability to synchronize users and groups.
  - **2. ADFS** , to allow on-premises authentication, 3rd party MFA, etc.
  - **3. Pass-through authentication** , provides on-premises authentication without deploying ADFS.
- In all 3, you need Azure AD Connect to provide the synchronization engine.
  - Additionally, the **Microsoft Identity Manager (MIM)** can be installed on-premises and used to **configure** the users, groups and attributes to be synchronized.

### Azure AD Pricing

- **Basic**: SLA + self-service password reset for cloud users.
- **Premium**: MFA + other stuff.
- **P2 only**: Conditional risk policy, privileged identity management

## Azure AD Domain Services

- Provides managed domain services.
- Windows Server Active Directory compatible.
  - LDAP, Kerberos, NTLM, Group Policy, and domain join capabilities are compatible.
  - ❗ Not all features available in Windows Server AD are available in Azure AD Domain Services.
- Compatible with both [Cloud only tenants](#cloud-only-tenant) and [hybrid tenants](#hybrid-cloud-tenant) using Azure AD Connect.
- No additional costs other than underlying Azure IaaS Virtual Machines.

### Cloud Only Tenant

- Managed by Azure.
- All user identities, credentials and groups, including group memberships, are created and managed in Azure AD.
- All the Azure AD objects are available within this domain

### Hybrid Cloud Tenant

- Synchronized to an on-premises directory
- An additional stand-alone Domain is created by the managed service.
  - The managed domain is a standalone domain and not an extension to the on-premises directory.
- Management
  - Tenant identities are still created and managed within Azure AD
  - On-premises identities are still created and managed on-premises.
- All objects from the on-premises domain and the Azure AD tenant are available to the managed service domain.
- Allows users to sign in to cloud services with their on-premises identities
  - Azure AD Connect must be configured to allow password synchronization
    - Allows resources in the cloud to connect to the managed domain can use Kerberos to authenticate.
- Managed by Azure
  - So domain administrator does not need to
    - manage this domain or any domain controllers.
    - have has no domain or enterprise admin privileges.
  - Available automatically, no need for AD replication.

### Azure AD Pass-Through Authentication

- Enables users to sign in to both on-premises and cloud applications using the same credentials.
- Azure AD validates users' passwords against on-premises Active Directory.
  - passwords are never stored in the cloud.
- No need to deploy ADFS infrastructure.
  - No need for complicated certificates or trusts.
- 📝 Azure AD Connect installs **Pass-through authentication agent** on same server where it is.
  - 💡 Install additional agents to make the service highly available.
- Free for all Azure AD tiers.
- Multi-forest environments are supported with some required routing changes.
- Users can be enabled to use self-service password management from the Azure AD directly.
- No additional ports or network configuration is required since the agent communicates outbound, so no perimeter network is required.
- Takes advantage of Azure AD Conditional Access policies, including Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA).
