# Networking Azure Application Components

## Virtual Networks

- VNet: the logical unit of multiple or all network resources in an Azure region.
- Within a VNet, you create one or more **subnet**s.
  - 💡 All traffic within a subnet is allowed, but communication across different subnets is blocked by default
- Several Azure Resources are making use of VNets and subnets for IP addressing
  - IaaS e.g. Virtual Machines, VM Scale Sets, Load Balancers, Azure Traffic Manager,…
  - PaaS e.g. Service Fabric, Azure Container Services, Hadoop, Azure Application Services,…

### Network Security Groups (NSGs)

- Software-defined firewalling
- Protects incoming traffic to Azure public IP addresses.
- Top level object that is associated to your subscription.
- Rules
  - **Inbound rules** are applied on the incoming packets to a VM.
  - **Outbound rules** are applied to the outgoing packets from the VM.
  - Can be changed at any time, and changes are applied to all associated instances.
  - An incoming or outgoing packet has to match an Allow rule for it be permitted, if not it will be dropped.
  - By default
    - Connectivity to the internet is allowed for Outbound direction.
    - Blocked for Inbound direction¨
  - 💡 The default rules cannot be deleted, but because they are assigned the lowest priority, they can be overridden by the rules that you create.
    - For example, a rule with a lower priority number (e.g. 100) is processed before rules with a higher priority numbers (e.g. 200). Once a match is found, no more rules are processed.
- Can be assigned to both VNet and VM (individual NIC).
- ❗ Limitations:
  - A VM or subnet can be associated with only 1 NSG, and each NSG can contain up to 200 rules.
  - You can have 100 NSGs per subscription.
  - NSGs cannot span Azure Regions.

### Multi-Region Virtual Network Architecture

- Applies for cross regions and on-premises
- 💡 From the Public Internet, Azure allows for load balancing across multiple Azure Regions by deploying Azure Traffic Manager.
- **Interconnecting Azure Regions** with each other is possible in three different ways:
  1. Configuring Azure Site-to-Site VPN between both regions
     - Encrypted tunnel connection over internet.
  2. Configuring Azure ExpressRoute communication tunnels
  3. Azure VNET Peering
     - Networking without encryption.
- **Interconnecting Azure Regions** with on-premises data centers is possible in two different ways:
  1. Configuring Azure Site-to-Site VPN between Azure and on-premises
  2. Configuring Azure ExpressRoute communication tunnels between Azure and on-premises

## IP Addressing

- IP-address gets allocated to a NIC during provisioning of the NIC
- First available IP-address in a subnet range is x.x.x.4
- Azure Subnets support dynamic (=default) and static IP addressing
- **Public IP-addressing**
  - Used for all public internet-facing communication
  - Required parameter when creating a VM from the portal
- **Private IP-addressing**
  - Used for all inter-VNET communication
  - Used for all communication between an Azure VNET and an on-premises VNET

## Azure DNS Resolving

- DNS server settings are configured on VNET level
- Using Azure DNS is the default configuration setting, but this can be modified
  - Use your custom DNS configuration:
    - Azure DNS Appliance (from Azure MarketPlace)
    - Azure VM (e.g. Windows ADDS with DNS)
    - On-premises DNS solution (requires connectivity)
- Public DNS names (available for VMs and App Services) must be unique across Azure regions.
  - An example of such Public DNS name is `host.region.cloudapp.azure.com`

## Load Balancing

### Azure Load Balancer

- Uses private IP addresses in back-end pools.
  - You can associate it to a Availability set, Single virtual machine or Virtual machine scale set
    - 💡 In an availability set, it allows it to grow to 10x the number of instances (100 in Basic to 1000 in Standard in a single Availability Set).
- Can handle almost any TCP or UDP traffic e.g. RDS (Remote Desktop Services Farm), Linux SSH.

#### Azure Load Balancer Types

- Can be configured both as an **[external load balancer](#external-load-balancer)** or as an **[internal load balancer](#internal-load-balancer)**
  - where one cannot act as both external and internal at the same time.

##### External load balancer

- The load balancer front-end is configured with a Public-facing IP-address
- Sends all traffic along to the back-end pool servers, using their internal IP-addresses.

##### Internal Load Balancer

- Doesn't have a Public-facing IP-address, and all communication is based on internal IP-addressing and IP-routing.
- Used for e.g. database server backends

#### Azure Load Balancer SKUs

| **Basic** | **Standard** |
| --- | --- |
| Up to 100 backend instances | Up to 1000 backend instances |
| Single Availability Set | Availability Sets are not required; providing support for Availability Zones |
| Basic NAT and Probe health status | Integrated Frontend and Backend health metrics |
| No HA Ports | Support for HA Ports |
| Network Security Groups (NSG) are optional | Network Security Groups are required during configuration and deployment |
| Free | Charged hourly based on number of rules configured (except NAT) & data processed |

### Azure Application Gateway

- Load Balancing, active on Layer 7 of the network stack; this mainly means it is "application intelligent."
- Main features Application Gateway provides, compared to Azure Load Balancer, are:
  - HTTP/HTTPS traffic only, no other ports allowed
  - SSL Offloading
  - Cookie Affinity
  - Web Application Firewall (WAF)
  - URL Based Routing
- SSL Termination
  - **SSL Offloading**, by importing the SSL Certificate onto the App Gateway; traffic to the backend servers don't require HTTPS communication, also that would still be an option.
  - **HTTP to HTTPS redirect** ; this means that, whenever a user is connecting to the web app using HTTP, the request will be redirected to HTTPS, forcing SSL Tunneling for this given request.
- **Web Application Firewall (WAF)**
  - Protection against several common attacks and threats on application workloads.
    - E.g. SQL Injection, Cross-site scripting, Protocol violations, Generic attacks, HTTP rate limiting, Scanner detection, Session fixation, LFI/RFI.

### Azure Marketplace Load Balancing Appliance

- Recommended for more capabilities around management, monitoring and control.
- Support is initially provided by Microsoft, backed by SLAs, and acting as a SPOC (Single point of contact).

#### Licensing Models

##### Bring Your Own License (BYOL)

- This is an ideal candidate if you are removing or downsizing on your on-premises running third-party load balancer.
- Depending on the specific licensing terms of the vendor, one can reuse the license key on the Azure VM Appliance.

##### Pay-Per-Use

- The monthly Azure VM consumption cost is based on the VM Size allocation to the Appliance, as well as a monthly licensing fee for the third party load balancing application within the VM.

### Azure Traffic Manager

- Control the distribution of user traffic to your specified endpoints.
- Works by applying an intelligent policy engine to Domain Name System (DNS) queries for the domain names of your internet resources.
- Flexible as it allows you to mix various endpoints behind the same DNS name.
- Easy to integrate with Web Apps.

### Example Azure Traffic Manager use cases

- **Failover**
  - Can poll to determine if and endpoint is online or offline.
  - Traffic is routed in the next online endpoint that's highest in the priority list.
- **Geography**
Uses Internet Latency Table to find closes endpoint to the client.
- **Distribution**
  - Near-random way to distribute evenly across set of endpoints.
  - Distribution can optionally be weighted.
    - 💡 Weighting is good if you have a smaller recovery site and want to keep majority of the traffic to the primary site using larger service tiers.

### Azure Traffic Manager Workflow

1. User traffic to company domain name, e.g. `fabrikam.com`
2. Company domain name to Traffic Manager domain name
   - CNAME resource record that maps the company domain name (e.g. `fabrikam.com`) to traffic manager domain name (e.g. `fabrikamweb.trafficmanager.net`)
3. Traffic Manager domain name and profile: The user's DNS server sends a new DNS query for the Traffic Manager domain name (e.g., `fabrikamweb.trafficmanager.net`), which is received by the Traffic Manager DNS name servers.
4. Traffic Manager profile rules processed: load balancing method and monitoring status to determine endpoint.
5. Endpoint domain name to user:
   - Returns CNAME that maps Traffic Manager domain name to the domain name of the endpoint.
   - Users DNS server resolves domain name to IP and sends it to user.
6. User calls the returned endpoint directly by using its IP address.

## Connectivity options

### On-Premises to Azure Connectivity

- This can be between an on-premises network and one or more Azure regions, or between multiple Azure regions
  | **Connectivity** | **Benefits** |
  | --- | --- |
  | ExpressRoute | • 💡 Use ExpressRoute as primary cross-premises connectivity. • Multiple circuits for redundancy & better routing. • 💡 Use ExpressRoute-VPN co-existence for highly available, redundant paths. |
  | Site-to-Site VPN | • 💡 S2S VPN over internet for remote branch locations • BGP & active-active configuration for HA and transit |
  | Point-to-Site VPN | • P2S VPN for mobile users & developers to connect from anywhere with macOS & Windows • AD/radius authentication for enterprise grade security |
- **Multi-Region VPN Connectivity**
  - Forced Tunneling
    - Azure traffic can be rerouted to an on-premises virtual network, to be routed through an existing Site-to-Site VPN or ExpressRoute, into the internal Azure VNET.
    - Security improvement as internal Azure VMs are no longer accessible through the public internet.

### Securing Access to PaaS Services

- Goal is to disable access to PaaS services from public internet.

#### Service Endpoints

- Use VNET **service endpoints**, where you define which PaaS services are no longer accessible through the public internet
- **Virtual network service endpoint**
  - ❗ Only available to Azure Storage Accounts, SQL DB Services in PaaS and Web Apps.
  - Provides the identity of your virtual network to the Azure service.
  - Service endpoints are configured on a subnet in a virtual network
  - You can configure multiple service endpoints for all supported Azure services on a subnet.
  - VNets and resources can be in different subscriptions and regions with exceptions:
    - ❗ SQL VNet must be in same region.
    - ❗ Storages Storage Account must be in same region.
- Flow:
  1. Connect storage account to a VNet.
  2. Add service endpoints to the VNet.
  3. Once service endpoints are enabled in VNet, you can secure Azure service resources to your virtual network by adding a VNet rule to the resources.
- **Access from on-premises**
  - You must also allow public (typically NAT) IP addresses from your on-premises or ExpressRoute.
  - Those IP addresses can be added through the IP firewall configuration for Azure service resources.

### VNET Peering

- Uses the Microsoft Backbone (not the public internet).
- Communication relies on internal IP addressing.
- Primary features
  - Allows you to interconnect 2 Azure VNET as if they are 1 large VNET.
  - Possible within the same Azure region, or across Azure regions
  - Supported to interconnect an Azure Classic VNET with an ARM VNET (e.g., for migrating workloads).
- 💡 If VNET peering is not an option, because you might want to encrypt your traffic within the VNET tunnel, deploy a VPN Gateway on both Azure Regional VNETs to create a Site-to-Site VPN tunnel across those regions.
